getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/dropdownlist/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
meta_title: DropDownList HtmlHelper extension for Kendo UI DropDownList | Kendo UI documentation 
meta_description: How to bind a Kendo UI DropDownList for ASP.NET MVC, configure a server-side wrapper for Kendo UI DropDownlist Widget.
slug: mvc-dropdownlist-overview
publish: true
---

# DropDownList

The DropDownList HtmlHelper extension is a server-side wrapper for the [Kendo UI DropDownList](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/web/dropdownlist) widget.

## Getting Started

There are two ways to bind a Kendo DropDownList for ASP.NET MVC:

*   **server** - the data will be serialized to the client. No Ajax requests will be made.
*   **ajax** - the dropdownlist will make ajax request to get the data.

### Configure the Kendo DropDownList for server binding

Here is how to configure the Kendo DropDownList  for server binding to the Northwind Products table using Linq to SQL:

1.  Make sure you have followed all the steps from the [Introduction](http://docs.kendoui.com/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/introduction) help topic.

2.  Create a new action method and pass the Products table as the model:

        public ActionResult Index()
        {
            NorthwindDataContext northwind = new NorthwindDataContext();

            return View(northwind.Products);
        }
3.  Make your view strongly typed:
    - WebForms

            <%@ Page Language="C#" MasterPageFile="~/Views/Shared/Site.Master"
               Inherits="System.Web.Mvc.ViewPage<IEnumerable<MvcApplication1.Models.Product>>" %>
    - Razor

            @model IEnumerable<MvcApplication1.Models.Product>
4.  Add a server bound dropdownlist:
    - WebForms

            <%: Html.Kendo().DropDownList()
                .Name("productDropDownList") //The name of the dropdownlist is mandatory. It specifies the "id" attribute of the widget.
                .DataTextField("ProductName") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a text.
                .DataValueField("ProductID") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a value.
                .BindTo(Model)   //Pass the list of Products to the dropdownlist.
                .SelectedIndex(10) //Select an item with index 10\. Note that the indexes are zero based.
            %>
    - Razor

            @(Html.Kendo().DropDownList()
              .Name("productDropDownList") //The name of the dropdownlist is mandatory. It specifies the "id" attribute of the widget.
              .DataTextField("ProductName") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a text.
              .DataValueField("ProductID") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a value.
              .BindTo(Model)   //Pass the list of Products to the dropdownlist.
              .SelectedIndex(10) //Select an item with index 10\. Note that the indexes are zero based.
            )

### Configure the Kendo DropDownList for ajax binding

Here is how to configure the Kendo DropDownList for ajax binding to the Northwind Products table using Linq to SQL:

1.  Make sure you have followed all the steps from the [Introduction](http://docs.kendoui.com/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/introduction) help topic.

2.  Create an action method which renders the view:

        public ActionResult Index()
        {
            return View();
        }
3.  Create a new action method and pass the Products table as Json result:

        public JsonResult GetProducts()
        {
            NorthwindDataContext northwind = new NorthwindDataContext();

            return Json(northwind.Products, JsonRequestBehavior.AllowGet);
        }
4.  Add a ajax bound dropdownlist:
    - WebForms

            <%: Html.Kendo().DropDownList()
                .Name("productDropDownList") //The name of the dropdownlist is mandatory. It specifies the "id" attribute of the widget.
                .DataTextField("ProductName") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a text.
                .DataValueField("ProductID") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a value.
                .DataSource(source =>
                {
                       source.Read(read =>
                       {
                            read.Action("GetProducts", "Home"); //Set the Action and Controller name
                       })
                       .ServerFiltering(true); //If true the DataSource will not filter the data on the client.
                })
                .SelectedIndex(0) //Select first item.
            %>
    - Razor

            @(Html.Kendo().DropDownList()
                .Name("productDropDownList") //The name of the dropdownlist is mandatory. It specifies the "id" attribute of the widget.
                .DataTextField("ProductName") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a text.
                .DataValueField("ProductID") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a value.
                .DataSource(source =>
                {
                       source.Read(read =>
                       {
                            read.Action("GetProducts", "Home"); //Set the Action and Controller name
                       })
                       .ServerFiltering(true); //If true the DataSource will not filter the data on the client.
                })
                .SelectedIndex(0) //Select first item.
            )

## Accessing an Existing DropDownList

You can reference an existing DropDownList instance via [jQuery.data()](http://api.jquery.com/jQuery.data/).
Once a reference has been established, you can use the [API](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/web/dropdownlist#methods) to control its behavior.


### Accessing an existing DropDownList instance

    //Put this after your Kendo DropDownList for ASP.NET MVC declaration
    <script>
    $(function() {
    // Notice that the Name() of the dropdownlist is used to get its client-side instance
    var dropdownlist = $("#productDropDownList").data("kendoDropDownList");
    });
    </script>


## Handling Kendo UI DropDownList events

You can subscribe to all [events](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/web/dropdownlist#events) exposed by Kendo UI DropDownList:


### WebForms - subscribe by handler name

    <%: Html.Kendo().DropDownList()
        .Name("dropdownlist")
        .BindTo(new string[] { "Item1", "Item2", "Item3" })
        .Events(e => e
            .Select("dropdownlist_select")
            .Change("dropdownlist_change")
        )
    %>
    <script>
    function dropdownlist_select() {
        //Handle the select event
    }

    function dropdownlist_change() {
        //Handle the change event
    }
    </script>


### Razor - subscribe by handler name

    @(Html.Kendo().DropDownList()
      .Name("dropdownlist")
      .BindTo(new string[] { "Item1", "Item2", "Item3" })
      .Events(e => e
            .Select("dropdownlist_select")
            .Change("dropdownlist_change")
      )
    )
    <script>
    function dropdownlist_select() {
        //Handle the select event
    }

    function dropdownlist_change() {
        //Handle the change event
    }
    </script>


### Razor - subscribe by template delegate

    @(Html.Kendo().DropDownList()
      .Name("dropdownlist")
      .BindTo(new string[] { "Item1", "Item2", "Item3" })
      .Events(e => e
          .Select(@<text>
            function() {
                //Handle the select event inline
            }
          </text>)
          .Change(@<text>
            function() {
                //Handle the change event inline
            }
            </text>)
      )
    )

Commit message:

Document the result of using ToDataSourceResult method

getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/dropdownlist/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
meta_title: DropDownList HtmlHelper extension for Kendo UI DropDownList | Kendo UI documentation
meta_description: How to bind a Kendo UI DropDownList for ASP.NET MVC, configure a server-side wrapper for Kendo UI DropDownlist Widget.
slug: mvc-dropdownlist-overview
publish: true
---

# DropDownList

The DropDownList HtmlHelper extension is a server-side wrapper for the [Kendo UI DropDownList](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/web/dropdownlist) widget.

## Getting Started

There are two ways to bind a Kendo DropDownList for ASP.NET MVC:

*   **server** - the data will be serialized to the client. No Ajax requests will be made.
*   **ajax** - the dropdownlist will make ajax request to get the data.

### Configure the Kendo DropDownList for server binding

Here is how to configure the Kendo DropDownList  for server binding to the Northwind Products table using Linq to SQL:

1.  Make sure you have followed all the steps from the [Introduction](http://docs.kendoui.com/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/introduction) help topic.

2.  Create a new action method and pass the Products table as the model:

        public ActionResult Index()
        {
            NorthwindDataContext northwind = new NorthwindDataContext();

            return View(northwind.Products);
        }
3.  Make your view strongly typed:
    - WebForms

            <%@ Page Language="C#" MasterPageFile="~/Views/Shared/Site.Master"
               Inherits="System.Web.Mvc.ViewPage<IEnumerable<MvcApplication1.Models.Product>>" %>
    - Razor

            @model IEnumerable<MvcApplication1.Models.Product>
4.  Add a server bound dropdownlist:
    - WebForms

            <%: Html.Kendo().DropDownList()
                .Name("productDropDownList") //The name of the dropdownlist is mandatory. It specifies the "id" attribute of the widget.
                .DataTextField("ProductName") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a text.
                .DataValueField("ProductID") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a value.
                .BindTo(Model)   //Pass the list of Products to the dropdownlist.
                .SelectedIndex(10) //Select an item with index 10\. Note that the indexes are zero based.
            %>
    - Razor

            @(Html.Kendo().DropDownList()
              .Name("productDropDownList") //The name of the dropdownlist is mandatory. It specifies the "id" attribute of the widget.
              .DataTextField("ProductName") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a text.
              .DataValueField("ProductID") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a value.
              .BindTo(Model)   //Pass the list of Products to the dropdownlist.
              .SelectedIndex(10) //Select an item with index 10\. Note that the indexes are zero based.
            )

### Configure the Kendo DropDownList for ajax binding

Here is how to configure the Kendo DropDownList for ajax binding to the Northwind Products table using Linq to SQL:

1.  Make sure you have followed all the steps from the [Introduction](http://docs.kendoui.com/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/introduction) help topic.

2.  Create an action method which renders the view:

        public ActionResult Index()
        {
            return View();
        }
3.  Create a new action method and pass the Products table as Json result:

        public JsonResult GetProducts()
        {
            NorthwindDataContext northwind = new NorthwindDataContext();

            return Json(northwind.Products, JsonRequestBehavior.AllowGet);
        }
4.  Add a ajax bound dropdownlist:
    - WebForms

            <%: Html.Kendo().DropDownList()
                .Name("productDropDownList") //The name of the dropdownlist is mandatory. It specifies the "id" attribute of the widget.
                .DataTextField("ProductName") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a text.
                .DataValueField("ProductID") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a value.
                .DataSource(source =>
                {
                       source.Read(read =>
                       {
                            read.Action("GetProducts", "Home"); //Set the Action and Controller name
                       })
                       .ServerFiltering(true); //If true the DataSource will not filter the data on the client.
                })
                .SelectedIndex(0) //Select first item.
            %>
    - Razor

            @(Html.Kendo().DropDownList()
                .Name("productDropDownList") //The name of the dropdownlist is mandatory. It specifies the "id" attribute of the widget.
                .DataTextField("ProductName") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a text.
                .DataValueField("ProductID") //Specifies which property of the Product to be used by the dropdownlist as a value.
                .DataSource(source =>
                {
                       source.Read(read =>
                       {
                            read.Action("GetProducts", "Home"); //Set the Action and Controller name
                       })
                       .ServerFiltering(true); //If true the DataSource will not filter the data on the client.
                })
                .SelectedIndex(0) //Select first item.
            )

> **Important:** **ToDataSourceResult()** extension method will modify structure of the result and the widget will not be able to bind to it. Please return simple array of data in this case.

## Accessing an Existing DropDownList

You can reference an existing DropDownList instance via [jQuery.data()](http://api.jquery.com/jQuery.data/).
Once a reference has been established, you can use the [API](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/web/dropdownlist#methods) to control its behavior.


### Accessing an existing DropDownList instance

    //Put this after your Kendo DropDownList for ASP.NET MVC declaration
    <script>
    $(function() {
    // Notice that the Name() of the dropdownlist is used to get its client-side instance
    var dropdownlist = $("#productDropDownList").data("kendoDropDownList");
    });
    </script>


## Handling Kendo UI DropDownList events

You can subscribe to all [events](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/web/dropdownlist#events) exposed by Kendo UI DropDownList:


### WebForms - subscribe by handler name

    <%: Html.Kendo().DropDownList()
        .Name("dropdownlist")
        .BindTo(new string[] { "Item1", "Item2", "Item3" })
        .Events(e => e
            .Select("dropdownlist_select")
            .Change("dropdownlist_change")
        )
    %>
    <script>
    function dropdownlist_select() {
        //Handle the select event
    }

    function dropdownlist_change() {
        //Handle the change event
    }
    </script>


### Razor - subscribe by handler name

    @(Html.Kendo().DropDownList()
      .Name("dropdownlist")
      .BindTo(new string[] { "Item1", "Item2", "Item3" })
      .Events(e => e
            .Select("dropdownlist_select")
            .Change("dropdownlist_change")
      )
    )
    <script>
    function dropdownlist_select() {
        //Handle the select event
    }

    function dropdownlist_change() {
        //Handle the change event
    }
    </script>


### Razor - subscribe by template delegate

    @(Html.Kendo().DropDownList()
      .Name("dropdownlist")
      .BindTo(new string[] { "Item1", "Item2", "Item3" })
      .Events(e => e
          .Select(@<text>
            function() {
                //Handle the select event inline
            }
          </text>)
          .Change(@<text>
            function() {
                //Handle the change event inline
            }
            </text>)
      )
    )
