getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/vs-integration/upgrade-wizard.md, before:

---
title: Upgrade Wizard
---

#Upgrade Wizard

This help topic shows how to upgrade a Telerik UI for ASP.NET MVC Application.

The Upgrade Wizard has two main purposes:

- Check and retrieve the latest available Telerik UI for ASP.NET MVC  release
- Change the version of Telerik UI for ASP.NET MVC in the projects in the solution use.

The Upgrade Wizard can be launched from the **Telerik | UI for ASP.NET MVC | Upgrade Wizard** menu item.

![Choose projects](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/vs-integration/images/upgrade_menu.png)

##Choose which projects will be updated

![update Project Resources](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/vs-integration/images/upgrade1.png)

The page allows you to configure the following options:

- **Version** - Select from all versions that have been previously installed or downloaded using the VS Extensions.
- **Add referenced assemblies to solution** - Choose whether to copy referenced assemblies to your solution folder. The assemblies will automatically get added to source control when using Microsoft Team Foundation Server.
- **Download** - Launch the Latest Version Acquirer tool.
- **Browse** - Browse to a location where the new version is manually downloaded and extracted.
- **Choose Projects** - Choose which projects will be updated (it is recommended to keep all Telerik projects the same version).

> **Note:**
The distribution, downloaded by the Upgrade Wizard contains only the "hotfix" files, e.g. the bare bone files, needed for a project to run correctly. It does not contain the documentation or the demo project.

> **Note:**
The listed projects use Telerik UI for ASP.NET MVC** 4. If the solution contains any projects which use **Telerik UI for ASP.NET MVC for other MVC version, they will be displayed on a separate page. When you complete the wizard all selected projects from the different pages will be updated.

##Update Project Resources

![Update Project Resources](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/vs-integration/images/upgrade2.png)

The Update Project Resources page allows you to:

- **Update Editor Templates** - Update the editor templates in ~/Views/Shared/EditorTemplates

##Create Backup

![Create Backup](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/vs-integration/images/upgrade3.png)

The **Create Backup** page allows you to:

- **Create a backup before converting** - backup your projects before upgrading it
- **Backup location** - specify the backup folder
- **Show upgrade log when the Upgrade Wizard finishes the update** - display the upgrade log after the Upgrade Wizard finishes

Commit message:

Added upgrade wizard's warning page.

getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/vs-integration/upgrade-wizard.md, after:

---
title: Upgrade Wizard
---

#Upgrade Wizard

This help topic shows how to upgrade a Telerik UI for ASP.NET MVC Application.

The Upgrade Wizard can be launched from the **Telerik | UI for ASP.NET MVC | Upgrade Wizard** menu item.

![Choose projects](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/vs-integration/images/upgrade_menu.png)

On the first screen of the wizard is described what will be upgraded:

![Upgrade wizard warning page](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/vs-integration/images/upgrade_warning.png)

In addition to the pure assembly reference change, the upgrade wizard provides several important features:
- Check and retrieve the latest available Telerik UI for ASP.NET MVC release
- Change the version of Telerik UI for ASP.NET MVC in the projects in the solution use

##Choose which projects will be updated

![update Project Resources](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/vs-integration/images/upgrade1.png)

The page allows you to configure the following options:

- **Version** - Select from all versions that have been previously installed or downloaded using the VS Extensions.
- **Add referenced assemblies to solution** - Choose whether to copy referenced assemblies to your solution folder. The assemblies will automatically get added to source control when using Microsoft Team Foundation Server.
- **Download** - Launch the Latest Version Acquirer tool.
- **Browse** - Browse to a location where the new version is manually downloaded and extracted.
- **Choose Projects** - Choose which projects will be updated (it is recommended to keep all Telerik projects the same version).

> **Note:**
The distribution, downloaded by the Upgrade Wizard contains only the "hotfix" files, e.g. the bare bone files, needed for a project to run correctly. It does not contain the documentation or the demo project.

> **Note:**
The listed projects use Telerik UI for ASP.NET MVC** 4. If the solution contains any projects which use **Telerik UI for ASP.NET MVC for other MVC version, they will be displayed on a separate page. When you complete the wizard all selected projects from the different pages will be updated.

##Update Project Resources

![Update Project Resources](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/vs-integration/images/upgrade2.png)

The Update Project Resources page allows you to:

- **Update Editor Templates** - Update the editor templates in ~/Views/Shared/EditorTemplates

##Create Backup

![Create Backup](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/vs-integration/images/upgrade3.png)

The **Create Backup** page allows you to:

- **Create a backup before converting** - backup your projects before upgrading it
- **Backup location** - specify the backup folder
- **Show upgrade log when the Upgrade Wizard finishes the update** - display the upgrade log after the Upgrade Wizard finishes
