api/web/maskedtextbox.md, before:

---
title: MaskedTextBox
page_title: Configuration, methods and events of Kendo UI MaskedTextBox
description: Code examples and tips how to configure MaskedTextBox widget, use available methods and events.
---

# kendo.ui.MaskedTextBox

Represents the Kendo UI MaskedTextBox widget. Inherits from [Widget](/api/framework/widget).

## Configuration

### culture `String`*(default: "en-US")*

 Specifies the culture info used by the widget.

#### Example - specify German culture internationalization

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "0,000.00 $",
        culture: "de-DE"
    });
    </script>

### mask `String`*(default: "")*

 Specifies the input mask. The following mask rules are supported:

- **0** - Digit. Accepts any digit between 0 and 9.
- **9** - Digit or space. Accepts any digit between 0 and 9, plus space.
- **#** - Digit or space. Like **9** rule, but allows also (+) and (-) signs.
- **L** - Letter. Restricts input to letters a-z and A-Z. This rule is equivalent to [a-zA-Z] in regular expressions.
- **?** - Letter or space. Restricts input to letters a-z and A-Z. This rule is equivalent to [a-zA-Z] in regular expressions.
- **&** - Character. Accepts any character. The rule is equivalent to *\S* in regular expressions.
- **C** - Character or space. Accepts any character. The rule is equivalent to *.* in regular expressions.
- **A** - Alphanumeric. Accepts letters and digits only.
- **a** - Alphanumeric or space. Accepts letters, digits and space only.
- **.** - Decimal placeholder. The decimal separator will be get from the current culture used by Kendo.
- **,** - Thousands placeholder. The display character will be get from the current culture used by Kendo.
- **$** - Currency symbol. The display character will be get from the current culture used by Kendo.

#### Example - specify a phone number mask

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "(000) 000-0000"
    });
    </script>

### promptChar `String`*(default: "_")*

 Specifies the character used to represent the absence of user input in the widget

#### Example - specify different prompt char

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "000000",
        promptChar: " " //specify prompt char as empty char
    });
    </script>

> Note that the promptChar should not be equal to any of the used mask literals in the mask value.

### rules `Object`

  Defines an object of custom mask rules.

#### Example - specify a custom rule as a RegExp instance

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "~000",
        rules: {
            "~": /[+-]/
        }
    });
    </script>

#### Example - specify a custom rule as a function

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "^000^",
        rules: {
            "^": function (char) {
                return char === "^"; //allow ony "^" symbol
            }
        }
    });
    </script>

### value `String`*(default: "")*

 Specifies the value of the MaskedTextBox widget.

#### Example - specify value option

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "(000) 000-0000",
        value: "(123) 456-7890"
    });
    </script>

#### Example - specify value option as a HTML attribute

    <input id="maskedtextbox" value="(123) 456-7890" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "(000) 000-0000"
    });
    </script>

## Fields

### options `Object`
An object, which holds the options of the widget.

#### Example - get options of the widget

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox();

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");

    var options = maskedtextbox.options;
    <script>

## Methods

### destroy
Prepares the **MaskedTextBox** for safe removal from DOM. Detaches all event handlers and removes jQuery.data attributes to avoid memory leaks.

> **Important:** This method does not remove the MaskedTextBox element from DOM.

#### Example

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox();

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");

    // detach events
    maskedtextbox.destroy();
    <script>

### enable

Enables or disables the widget.

#### Parameters

##### enable `Boolean`

If set to `true` the widget will be enabled. If set to `false` the widget will be disabled.

#### Example - enable the widget

    <input id="maskedtextbox" disabled="disabled" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox();

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");
    maskedtextbox.enable(true);
    </script>

### readonly

Toggles the readonly state of the widget. When the widget is readonly it doesn't allow user input.

> There is a difference between disabled and readonly mode. The value of a disabled widget is **not** posted as part of a `form` whereas the value of a readonly widget is posted.

#### Parameters

##### readonly `Boolean`

If set to `true` the widget will not allow user input. If set to `false` the widget will allow user input.

#### Example - make the widget readonly

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox();

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");
    maskedtextbox.readonly();
    </script>

### value

Gets or sets the value of the maskedtextbox.

#### Parameters

##### value `String`

The value to set.

#### Returns

`String` The value of the widget.

#### Example - get the value of the maskedtextbox

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "000000",
        value: "123456"
    });

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");

    var value = maskedtextbox.value();

    console.log(value);
    </script>

#### Example - set the value of the maskedtextbox

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "(000) 000-0000"
    });

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");

    var value = maskedtextbox.value();

    maskedtextbox.value("555 123 1234");
    </script>

## Events

### change

Fires when the value is changed

#### Event Data

##### e.sender `kendo.ui.MaskedTextBox`

The widget instance which fired the event.

#### Example - subscribe to the "change" event during initialization

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        change: function() {
            var value = this.value();
            console.log(value); //value is the selected date in the maskedtextbox
        }
    });
    </script>

#### Example - subscribe to the "change" event after initialization

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox();

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");

    maskedtextbox.bind("change", function() {
        var value = this.value();
        console.log(value); //value is the selected date in the maskedtextbox
    });
    </script>

Commit message:

Document clearPromptChar option of maskedtextbox. Sort options

api/web/maskedtextbox.md, after:

---
title: MaskedTextBox
page_title: Configuration, methods and events of Kendo UI MaskedTextBox
description: Code examples and tips how to configure MaskedTextBox widget, use available methods and events.
---

# kendo.ui.MaskedTextBox

Represents the Kendo UI MaskedTextBox widget. Inherits from [Widget](/api/framework/widget).

## Configuration

### clearPromptChar `Boolean`*(default: false)*

Specifies whether the widget will replace the prompt characters with spaces on blur. Prompt chars will be shown again on focus.

#### Example - specify different prompt char

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "000000",
        clearPromptChar: true
    });
    </script>

### culture `String`*(default: "en-US")*

Specifies the culture info used by the widget.

#### Example - specify German culture internationalization

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "0,000.00 $",
        culture: "de-DE"
    });
    </script>

### mask `String`*(default: "")*

Specifies the input mask. The following mask rules are supported:

- **0** - Digit. Accepts any digit between 0 and 9.
- **9** - Digit or space. Accepts any digit between 0 and 9, plus space.
- **#** - Digit or space. Like **9** rule, but allows also (+) and (-) signs.
- **L** - Letter. Restricts input to letters a-z and A-Z. This rule is equivalent to [a-zA-Z] in regular expressions.
- **?** - Letter or space. Restricts input to letters a-z and A-Z. This rule is equivalent to [a-zA-Z] in regular expressions.
- **&** - Character. Accepts any character. The rule is equivalent to *\S* in regular expressions.
- **C** - Character or space. Accepts any character. The rule is equivalent to *.* in regular expressions.
- **A** - Alphanumeric. Accepts letters and digits only.
- **a** - Alphanumeric or space. Accepts letters, digits and space only.
- **.** - Decimal placeholder. The decimal separator will be get from the current culture used by Kendo.
- **,** - Thousands placeholder. The display character will be get from the current culture used by Kendo.
- **$** - Currency symbol. The display character will be get from the current culture used by Kendo.

#### Example - specify a phone number mask

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "(000) 000-0000"
    });
    </script>

### promptChar `String`*(default: "_")*

Specifies the character used to represent the absence of user input in the widget

#### Example - specify different prompt char

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "000000",
        promptChar: " " //specify prompt char as empty char
    });
    </script>

> Note that the promptChar should not be equal to any of the used mask literals in the mask value.

### rules `Object`

Defines an object of custom mask rules.

#### Example - specify a custom rule as a RegExp instance

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "~000",
        rules: {
            "~": /[+-]/
        }
    });
    </script>

#### Example - specify a custom rule as a function

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "^000^",
        rules: {
            "^": function (char) {
                return char === "^"; //allow ony "^" symbol
            }
        }
    });
    </script>

### value `String`*(default: "")*

Specifies the value of the MaskedTextBox widget.

#### Example - specify value option

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "(000) 000-0000",
        value: "(123) 456-7890"
    });
    </script>

#### Example - specify value option as a HTML attribute

    <input id="maskedtextbox" value="(123) 456-7890" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "(000) 000-0000"
    });
    </script>

## Fields

### options `Object`

An object, which holds the options of the widget.

#### Example - get options of the widget

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox();

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");

    var options = maskedtextbox.options;
    <script>

## Methods

### destroy

Prepares the **MaskedTextBox** for safe removal from DOM. Detaches all event handlers and removes jQuery.data attributes to avoid memory leaks.

> **Important:** This method does not remove the MaskedTextBox element from DOM.

#### Example

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox();

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");

    // detach events
    maskedtextbox.destroy();
    <script>

### enable

Enables or disables the widget.

#### Parameters

##### enable `Boolean`

If set to `true` the widget will be enabled. If set to `false` the widget will be disabled.

#### Example - enable the widget

    <input id="maskedtextbox" disabled="disabled" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox();

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");
    maskedtextbox.enable(true);
    </script>

### readonly

Toggles the readonly state of the widget. When the widget is readonly it doesn't allow user input.

> There is a difference between disabled and readonly mode. The value of a disabled widget is **not** posted as part of a `form` whereas the value of a readonly widget is posted.

#### Parameters

##### readonly `Boolean`

If set to `true` the widget will not allow user input. If set to `false` the widget will allow user input.

#### Example - make the widget readonly

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox();

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");
    maskedtextbox.readonly();
    </script>

### value

Gets or sets the value of the maskedtextbox.

#### Parameters

##### value `String`

The value to set.

#### Returns

`String` The value of the widget.

#### Example - get the value of the maskedtextbox

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "000000",
        value: "123456"
    });

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");

    var value = maskedtextbox.value();

    console.log(value);
    </script>

#### Example - set the value of the maskedtextbox

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        mask: "(000) 000-0000"
    });

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");

    var value = maskedtextbox.value();

    maskedtextbox.value("555 123 1234");
    </script>

## Events

### change

Fires when the value is changed

#### Event Data

##### e.sender `kendo.ui.MaskedTextBox`

The widget instance which fired the event.

#### Example - subscribe to the "change" event during initialization

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
        change: function() {
            var value = this.value();
            console.log(value); //value is the selected date in the maskedtextbox
        }
    });
    </script>

#### Example - subscribe to the "change" event after initialization

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />
    <script>
    $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox();

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");

    maskedtextbox.bind("change", function() {
        var value = this.value();
        console.log(value); //value is the selected date in the maskedtextbox
    });
    </script>
