api/web/multiselect.md, before:

---
title: kendo.ui.MultiSelect
meta_title: Configuration, methods and events of Kendo UI MultiSelect
slug: api-web-multiselect
relatedDocs: gs-web-multiselect-overview
tags: api,web
publish: true
---

# kendo.ui.MultiSelect

Represents the Kendo UI MultiSelect widget. Inherits from [Widget](/api/framework/widget).

## Configuration

### animation `Object`

 Animations to be used for opening/closing the popup. Setting to false will turn off the animation.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        animation: false
    });

### animation.close `Object`

 Animation to be used for closing of the popup.

#### Example

    //multiselect initialization
     <script>
         $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
             dataSource: dataSource,
             animation: {
                close: {
                    effects: "fadeOut",
                    duration: 300
                }
             }
         });
     </script>

### animation.close.effects `String`

Effect to be used for closing of the popup.

### animation.close.duration `Number`

Difines the animation duration.

### animation.open `Object`

 Animation to be used for opening of the popup.

#### Example

    //multiselect initialization

    <script>
         $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
             dataSource: dataSource,
             animation: {
                open: {
                    effects: "fadeIn",
                    duration: 300
                }
             }
         });
     </script>

### animation.open.effects `String`

Effect to be used for opening of the popup.

### animation.open.duration `Number`

Difines the animation duration.

### autoBind `Boolean`*(default: true)*

 Controls whether to bind the widget to the DataSource on initialization.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        autoBind: false
    });

### dataSource `Object | kendo.data.DataSource`

A local JavaScript object or instance of DataSource or the data that the multiselect will be bound to.

#### Example

    var items = [{ text: "Item 1", value: "1" }, { text: "Item 2", value: "2" }];
    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        dataTextField: "text",
        dataValueField: "value",
        dataSource: items
    });

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        dataSource: new kendo.data.DataSource({
            transport: {
                read: {
                    url: "Get/Items" // url to remote data source (simple list of strings)
                }
            }
        });
    });

### dataTextField `String`*(default: "")*

 Sets the field of the data item that provides the text content of the list items.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        dataTextField: "Name",
        dataValueField: "ID"
    });

### dataValueField `String`*(default: "")*

 Sets the field of the data item that provides the value content of the list items.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        dataTextField: "Name",
        dataValueField: "ID"
    });

### delay `Number`*(default: 200)*

 Specifies the delay in ms after which the multiselect will start filtering dataSource.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        delay: 500
    });

### enable `Boolean`*(default: true)*

 Controls whether the multiselect should be initially enabled.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        enable: false
    });

#### Example

    // get a reference to the multiselect widget
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    multiselect.enable(false);

### filter `String`*(default: "none")*

 Defines the type of filtration.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        filter: "startswith"
    });

### height `Number`*(default: 200)*

 Define the height of the drop-down list in pixels.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        height: 500
    });

### highlightFirst `Boolean`*(default: true)*

 Controls whether the first item will be automatically highlighted.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        highLightFirst: true
    });

### ignoreCase `String`*(default: true)*

 Defines whether the filtration should be case sensitive.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        filter: 'contains',
        ignoreCase: false //now filtration will be case sensitive
    });

### minLength `Number`*(default: 1)*

 Specifies the minimum characters that should be typed before the multiselect activates

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        minLength: 3
    });

### maxSelectedItems `Number`*(default: null)*

 Defines the limit of the selected items. If set to null widget will not limit number of the selected items.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        maxSelectedItems: 3 //only three or less items chould be selected
    });

### placeholder `String`*(default: "")*

 A string that appears in the textbox when the multiselect has no value.


#### Example

    //multiselect initialization
     <script>
         $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
             dataSource: dataSource,
             placeholder: "Select..."
         });
     </script>

#### Example

    <select id="multiselect" data-placeholder="Select..."></select>

     //multiselect initialization
     <script>
         $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
             dataSource: dataSource
         });
     </script>

### itemTemplate `String`

Template to be used for rendering the items in the list.

#### Example

    //template
    <script id="itemTemplate" type="text/x-kendo-tmpl">
          # if (data.BoxArt.SmallUrl) { #
              <img src="#:data.BoxArt.SmallUrl#" alt="#:data.Name#" />Title: #:data.Name#, Year: #:data.Name#
          # } else { #
              <img alt="#:data.Name#" />Title: #:data.Name#, Year: #:data.Name#
          # } #
     </script>

     //multiselect initialization
     <script>
         $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
             dataSource: dataSource,
             dataTextField: "Name",
             dataValueField: "Id",
             itemTemplate: $("#itemTemplate").html()
         });
     </script>

### tagTemplate `String`

Template to be used for rendering the tags of the selected items.

#### Example

    //template
    <script id="tagTemplate" type="text/x-kendo-tmpl">
      <img src="#:data.BoxArt.SmallUrl#" alt="#:data.Name#" />Title: #:data.Name#, Year: #:data.Name#
    </script>

     //multiselect initialization
     <script>
         $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
             dataSource: dataSource,
             dataTextField: "Name",
             dataValueField: "Id",
             tagTemplate: $("#tagTemplate").html()
         });
     </script>

### value `Array`*(default: [])*

 Define the value of the widget

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
         dataSource: ["Item1", "Item2", "Item3", "Item4"],
         value: ["Item2", "item3"]
    });

> **Important:** Define a list of data items if widget is not initially bound

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        autoBind: false,
        dataTextField: "text",
        dataValueField: "value",
        value: [{ text: "Item 1", value: "1" }, { text: "Item 2", value: "2" }]
    });

## Methods

### close

Closes the drop-down list.

#### Example

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    multiselect.close();

### dataItems

Returns list of raw data records corresponding to the selected items.

#### Example

    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    // get data items for the selected options.
    var dataItem = multiselect.dataItems();

#### Returns

`Array` The raw data records. Returns empty array ([]) if no selected options

### destroy
Prepares the **multiselect** for safe removal from DOM. Detaches all event handlers and removes jQuery.data attributes to avoid memory leaks. Calls destroy method of any child Kendo widgets.

> **Important:** This method does not remove the multiselect element from DOM.

#### Example

    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    // detach events
    multiselect.destroy();

### enable

Enables/disables the multiselect widget

#### Example

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    // disables the multiselect
    multiselect.enable(false);

#### Parameters

##### enable `Boolean`

Desired state

### readonly

Controls whether the widget is editable or readonly.

#### Example

    // get a reference to the multiselect widget
    var multiselect = $("multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    // makes multiselect readonly
    multiselect.readonly();

    // makes multiselect editable
    multiselect.readonly(false);

#### Parameters

##### readonly `Boolean`

The argument, which defines whether the multiselect should be readonly or editable.

### focus

Focuses the widget.

#### Example

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    // focus the widget
    multiselect.focus();

### open

Opens the drop-down list.

> **Important:** This method will not open popup element if there are no items.

#### Example

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    multiselect.open();

### refresh

Re-render the items of the drop-down list.

#### Example

    // get a referenence to the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    // re-render the items of the drop-down list.
    multiselect.refresh();

### search

Filters dataSource using the provided parameter and rebinds drop-down list.

#### Example

    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    // Searches for item which has "In" in the name.
    multiselect.search("In");

#### Parameters

##### word `String`

The filter value.

### setDataSource

Sets the dataSource of an existing multiselect and rebinds it.

#### Parameters

##### dataSource `kendo.data.DataSource`

#### Example

    var dataSource = new kendo.data.DataSource({
        //dataSource configuration
    });

    $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect").setDataSource(dataSource);

### toggle

Toggles the drop-down list between opened and closed state.

#### Example

    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    // toggles the open state of the drop-down list.
    multiselect.toggle();

#### Parameters

##### toggle `Boolean`

Defines the whether to open/close the drop-down list.

### value

Gets/Sets the value of the multiselect. Accepts <i>string</i> value or <i>Array of strings</i>.

#### Example

    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    // get the value of the multiselect.
    var value = multiselect.value();

    // set the value of the multiselect.
    multiselect.value(["1", "2"]); //select items which have value respectively "1" and "2"

#### Parameters

##### value `Array|String`

The value to set.

#### Returns

`Array` The value of the multiselect.

> If initial items are lost in attempt to set new values, probably the widget is filtered by the end user, but no value has been selected. You will need to remove applied filter, before calling value method

    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    //clear filter
    multiselect.dataSource.filter({});

    //set value
    multiselect.value(["1", "2"]);

## Events

### change

Fires when the value has been changed.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        change: function(e) {
            // handle event
        }
    });

#### To set after initialization

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    // bind to the change event
    multiselect.bind("change", function(e) {
        // handle event
    });

### close

Fires when the drop-down list is closed

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        close: function(e) {
            // handle event
        }
    });

#### To set after initialization

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    // bind to the close event
    multiselect.bind("close", function(e) {
        // handle event
    });

### dataBound

Fires when the multiselect has received data from the data source.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        dataBound: function(e) {
            // handle event
        }
    });

#### To set after initialization

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    // bind to the close event
    multiselect.bind("dataBound", function(e) {
        // handle event
    });

### open

Fires when the drop-down list is opened

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        open: function(e) {
                // handle event
            }
    });

#### To set after initialization

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    // bind to the open event
    multiselect.bind("open", function(e) {
        // handle event
    });

### select

Triggered when a Li element is selected.

#### Attach select event handler during initialization; detach via unbind()

    // event handler for select
    var onSelect = function(e) {
        // access the selected item via e.item (jQuery object)
    };

    // attach select event handler during initialization
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        select: onSelect
    });

    // detach select event handler via unbind()
    multiselect.data("kendoMultiSelect").unbind("select", onSelect);

#### Attach select event handler via bind(); detach via unbind()

    // event handler for select
    var onSelect = function(e) {
        // access the selected item via e.item (jQuery object)
    };

    // attach select event handler via bind()
    $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect").bind("select", onSelect);

    // detach select event handler via unbind()
    $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect").unbind("select", onSelect);

#### Event Data

##### e.item `jQuery`

The selected item chosen by a user.

## Field

### element
A jQuery object of the original input element.

### options
An object, which holds the options of the widget.

### wrapper
A jQuery object of the span element which wraps the input.

### input
A jQuery object of the visible input element, used to filter the available options.

### tagList
A jQuery object of the ul element, which holds the selected tags.

### list
A jQuery object of the drop-down list element.

### ul
A jQuery object of the ul element, which holds the available options.

### dataSource
The DataSource instance used by the widget.

### popup
The Popup instace used by the widget.

Commit message:

Document that multiselect value method pre-fetch data when autoBind:false

api/web/multiselect.md, after:

---
title: kendo.ui.MultiSelect
meta_title: Configuration, methods and events of Kendo UI MultiSelect
slug: api-web-multiselect
relatedDocs: gs-web-multiselect-overview
tags: api,web
publish: true
---

# kendo.ui.MultiSelect

Represents the Kendo UI MultiSelect widget. Inherits from [Widget](/api/framework/widget).

## Configuration

### animation `Object`

 Animations to be used for opening/closing the popup. Setting to false will turn off the animation.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        animation: false
    });

### animation.close `Object`

 Animation to be used for closing of the popup.

#### Example

    //multiselect initialization
     <script>
         $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
             dataSource: dataSource,
             animation: {
                close: {
                    effects: "fadeOut",
                    duration: 300
                }
             }
         });
     </script>

### animation.close.effects `String`

Effect to be used for closing of the popup.

### animation.close.duration `Number`

Difines the animation duration.

### animation.open `Object`

 Animation to be used for opening of the popup.

#### Example

    //multiselect initialization

    <script>
         $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
             dataSource: dataSource,
             animation: {
                open: {
                    effects: "fadeIn",
                    duration: 300
                }
             }
         });
     </script>

### animation.open.effects `String`

Effect to be used for opening of the popup.

### animation.open.duration `Number`

Difines the animation duration.

### autoBind `Boolean`*(default: true)*

 Controls whether to bind the widget to the DataSource on initialization.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        autoBind: false
    });

### dataSource `Object | kendo.data.DataSource`

A local JavaScript object or instance of DataSource or the data that the multiselect will be bound to.

#### Example

    var items = [{ text: "Item 1", value: "1" }, { text: "Item 2", value: "2" }];
    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        dataTextField: "text",
        dataValueField: "value",
        dataSource: items
    });

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        dataSource: new kendo.data.DataSource({
            transport: {
                read: {
                    url: "Get/Items" // url to remote data source (simple list of strings)
                }
            }
        });
    });

### dataTextField `String`*(default: "")*

 Sets the field of the data item that provides the text content of the list items.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        dataTextField: "Name",
        dataValueField: "ID"
    });

### dataValueField `String`*(default: "")*

 Sets the field of the data item that provides the value content of the list items.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        dataTextField: "Name",
        dataValueField: "ID"
    });

### delay `Number`*(default: 200)*

 Specifies the delay in ms after which the multiselect will start filtering dataSource.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        delay: 500
    });

### enable `Boolean`*(default: true)*

 Controls whether the multiselect should be initially enabled.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        enable: false
    });

#### Example

    // get a reference to the multiselect widget
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    multiselect.enable(false);

### filter `String`*(default: "none")*

 Defines the type of filtration.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        filter: "startswith"
    });

### height `Number`*(default: 200)*

 Define the height of the drop-down list in pixels.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        height: 500
    });

### highlightFirst `Boolean`*(default: true)*

 Controls whether the first item will be automatically highlighted.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        highLightFirst: true
    });

### ignoreCase `String`*(default: true)*

 Defines whether the filtration should be case sensitive.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        filter: 'contains',
        ignoreCase: false //now filtration will be case sensitive
    });

### minLength `Number`*(default: 1)*

 Specifies the minimum characters that should be typed before the multiselect activates

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        minLength: 3
    });

### maxSelectedItems `Number`*(default: null)*

 Defines the limit of the selected items. If set to null widget will not limit number of the selected items.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        maxSelectedItems: 3 //only three or less items chould be selected
    });

### placeholder `String`*(default: "")*

 A string that appears in the textbox when the multiselect has no value.


#### Example

    //multiselect initialization
     <script>
         $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
             dataSource: dataSource,
             placeholder: "Select..."
         });
     </script>

#### Example

    <select id="multiselect" data-placeholder="Select..."></select>

     //multiselect initialization
     <script>
         $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
             dataSource: dataSource
         });
     </script>

### itemTemplate `String`

Template to be used for rendering the items in the list.

#### Example

    //template
    <script id="itemTemplate" type="text/x-kendo-tmpl">
          # if (data.BoxArt.SmallUrl) { #
              <img src="#:data.BoxArt.SmallUrl#" alt="#:data.Name#" />Title: #:data.Name#, Year: #:data.Name#
          # } else { #
              <img alt="#:data.Name#" />Title: #:data.Name#, Year: #:data.Name#
          # } #
     </script>

     //multiselect initialization
     <script>
         $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
             dataSource: dataSource,
             dataTextField: "Name",
             dataValueField: "Id",
             itemTemplate: $("#itemTemplate").html()
         });
     </script>

### tagTemplate `String`

Template to be used for rendering the tags of the selected items.

#### Example

    //template
    <script id="tagTemplate" type="text/x-kendo-tmpl">
      <img src="#:data.BoxArt.SmallUrl#" alt="#:data.Name#" />Title: #:data.Name#, Year: #:data.Name#
    </script>

     //multiselect initialization
     <script>
         $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
             dataSource: dataSource,
             dataTextField: "Name",
             dataValueField: "Id",
             tagTemplate: $("#tagTemplate").html()
         });
     </script>

### value `Array`*(default: [])*

 Define the value of the widget

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
         dataSource: ["Item1", "Item2", "Item3", "Item4"],
         value: ["Item2", "item3"]
    });

> **Important:** Define a list of data items if widget is not initially bound

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        autoBind: false,
        dataTextField: "text",
        dataValueField: "value",
        value: [{ text: "Item 1", value: "1" }, { text: "Item 2", value: "2" }]
    });

## Methods

### close

Closes the drop-down list.

#### Example

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    multiselect.close();

### dataItems

Returns list of raw data records corresponding to the selected items.

#### Example

    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    // get data items for the selected options.
    var dataItem = multiselect.dataItems();

#### Returns

`Array` The raw data records. Returns empty array ([]) if no selected options

### destroy
Prepares the **multiselect** for safe removal from DOM. Detaches all event handlers and removes jQuery.data attributes to avoid memory leaks. Calls destroy method of any child Kendo widgets.

> **Important:** This method does not remove the multiselect element from DOM.

#### Example

    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    // detach events
    multiselect.destroy();

### enable

Enables/disables the multiselect widget

#### Example

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    // disables the multiselect
    multiselect.enable(false);

#### Parameters

##### enable `Boolean`

Desired state

### readonly

Controls whether the widget is editable or readonly.

#### Example

    // get a reference to the multiselect widget
    var multiselect = $("multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    // makes multiselect readonly
    multiselect.readonly();

    // makes multiselect editable
    multiselect.readonly(false);

#### Parameters

##### readonly `Boolean`

The argument, which defines whether the multiselect should be readonly or editable.

### focus

Focuses the widget.

#### Example

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    // focus the widget
    multiselect.focus();

### open

Opens the drop-down list.

> **Important:** This method will not open popup element if there are no items.

#### Example

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    multiselect.open();

### refresh

Re-render the items of the drop-down list.

#### Example

    // get a referenence to the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    // re-render the items of the drop-down list.
    multiselect.refresh();

### search

Filters dataSource using the provided parameter and rebinds drop-down list.

#### Example

    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    // Searches for item which has "In" in the name.
    multiselect.search("In");

#### Parameters

##### word `String`

The filter value.

### setDataSource

Sets the dataSource of an existing multiselect and rebinds it.

#### Parameters

##### dataSource `kendo.data.DataSource`

#### Example

    var dataSource = new kendo.data.DataSource({
        //dataSource configuration
    });

    $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect").setDataSource(dataSource);

### toggle

Toggles the drop-down list between opened and closed state.

#### Example

    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    // toggles the open state of the drop-down list.
    multiselect.toggle();

#### Parameters

##### toggle `Boolean`

Defines the whether to open/close the drop-down list.

### value

Gets/Sets the value of the multiselect. Accepts <i>string</i> value or <i>Array of strings</i>.

#### Example

    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    // get the value of the multiselect.
    var value = multiselect.value();

    // set the value of the multiselect.
    multiselect.value(["1", "2"]); //select items which have value respectively "1" and "2"

#### Parameters

##### value `Array|String`

The value to set.

#### Returns

`Array` The value of the multiselect.

> **Important:** If no items, value method will pre-fetch the data before continue with the value setting.

> If initial items are lost in attempt to set new values, probably the widget is filtered by the end user, but no value has been selected. You will need to remove applied filter, before calling value method

    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");

    //clear filter
    multiselect.dataSource.filter({});

    //set value
    multiselect.value(["1", "2"]);

## Events

### change

Fires when the value has been changed.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        change: function(e) {
            // handle event
        }
    });

#### To set after initialization

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    // bind to the change event
    multiselect.bind("change", function(e) {
        // handle event
    });

### close

Fires when the drop-down list is closed

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        close: function(e) {
            // handle event
        }
    });

#### To set after initialization

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    // bind to the close event
    multiselect.bind("close", function(e) {
        // handle event
    });

### dataBound

Fires when the multiselect has received data from the data source.

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        dataBound: function(e) {
            // handle event
        }
    });

#### To set after initialization

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    // bind to the close event
    multiselect.bind("dataBound", function(e) {
        // handle event
    });

### open

Fires when the drop-down list is opened

#### Example

    $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        open: function(e) {
                // handle event
            }
    });

#### To set after initialization

    // get a reference to instance of the Kendo UI multiselect
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect");
    // bind to the open event
    multiselect.bind("open", function(e) {
        // handle event
    });

### select

Triggered when a Li element is selected.

#### Attach select event handler during initialization; detach via unbind()

    // event handler for select
    var onSelect = function(e) {
        // access the selected item via e.item (jQuery object)
    };

    // attach select event handler during initialization
    var multiselect = $("#multiselect").kendoMultiSelect({
        select: onSelect
    });

    // detach select event handler via unbind()
    multiselect.data("kendoMultiSelect").unbind("select", onSelect);

#### Attach select event handler via bind(); detach via unbind()

    // event handler for select
    var onSelect = function(e) {
        // access the selected item via e.item (jQuery object)
    };

    // attach select event handler via bind()
    $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect").bind("select", onSelect);

    // detach select event handler via unbind()
    $("#multiselect").data("kendoMultiSelect").unbind("select", onSelect);

#### Event Data

##### e.item `jQuery`

The selected item chosen by a user.

## Field

### element
A jQuery object of the original input element.

### options
An object, which holds the options of the widget.

### wrapper
A jQuery object of the span element which wraps the input.

### input
A jQuery object of the visible input element, used to filter the available options.

### tagList
A jQuery object of the ul element, which holds the selected tags.

### list
A jQuery object of the drop-down list element.

### ul
A jQuery object of the ul element, which holds the available options.

### dataSource
The DataSource instance used by the widget.

### popup
The Popup instace used by the widget.
