getting-started/introduction.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
meta_title: HTML5, jQuery-based framework | Kendo UI
meta_description: Kendo UI framework overview: UI components, rich data vizualization framework, auto-adaptive mobile widgets and all tools for building rich web apps.
slug: gs-introduction
tags: 101, Getting Started, internals
publish: true
ordinal: 01
---

# What is Kendo UI

Kendo UI is an HTML5, jQuery-based framework for building modern web apps. The framework features lots of UI widgets, a rich data vizualization framework,
an auto-adaptive Mobile framework, and all of the tools needed for HTML5 app development, such as Data Binding, Templating, Drag-and-Drop API, and more.

Kendo UI comes in different bundles:

* Kendo UI Web - HTML5 widgets for desktop browsing experience.
* Kendo UI DataViz - HTML5 data vizualization widgets.
* Kendo UI Mobile - HTML5 framework for building hybrid mobile applications.
* Kendo UI Complete - includes Kendo UI Web, Kendo UI DataViz and Kendo UI Mobile.
* Kendo UI Complete for ASP.NET MVC - Kendo UI Complete plus ASP.NET MVC wrappers for Kendo UI Web and Kendo UI DataViz.
* Kendo UI Complete for JSP - Kendo UI Complete plus JSP wrappers for Kendo UI Web and Kendo UI DataViz.
* Kendo UI Complete for PHP - Kendo UI Complete plus PHP wrappers for Kendo UI Web and Kendo UI DataViz.

# Installing and Getting Started with Kendo UI

You can download all Kendo UI bundles from the [download page](http://www.kendoui.com/download).

The distribution zip file contains the following:

* /examples - quick start demos.
* /js - minified JavaScript files.
* /src - complete source code. Not available in the trial distribution.
* /styles - minified CSS files and other theme resources.
* /wrappers - server-side wrappers. Available in Kendo UI Complete for ASP.NET MVC, JSP or PHP.
* changelog.html - Kendo UI release notes.

## Using Kendo UI

To use Kendo UI in your HTML page you need to include the required JavaScript and CSS files.

### Kendo UI Web

1. Download Kendo UI Web and extract the distribution zip file to a convenient location.
1. Copy the **/js** and **/styles** directories of the Kendo UI Web distribution to your web application root directory.
1. Include the Kendo UI Web JavaScript and CSS files in the `head` tag of your HTML page:

        <!-- Common Kendo UI Web CSS -->
        <link href="styles/kendo.common.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        <!-- Default Kendo UI Web theme CSS -->
        <link href="styles/kendo.default.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        <!-- jQuery JavaScript -->
        <script src="js/jquery.min.js"></script>
        <!-- Kendo UI Web combined JavaScript -->
        <script src="js/kendo.web.min.js"></script>
1. Initialize a Kendo UI Web Widget (the Kendo DatePicker in this example):

        <!-- HTML element from which the Kendo DatePicker would be initialized -->
        <input id="datepicker" />
        <script>
        $(function() {
            // Initialize the Kendo DatePicker by calling the kendoDatePicker jQuery plugin
            $("#datepicker").kendoDatePicker();
        });
        </script>

Here is the complete example:

    <!doctype html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <title>Kendo UI Web</title>
            <link href="styles/kendo.common.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
            <link href="styles/kendo.default.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
            <script src="js/jquery.min.js"></script>
            <script src="js/kendo.web.min.js"></script>
        </head>
        <body>
            <input id="datepicker" />
            <script>
                $(function() {
                    $("#datepicker").kendoDatePicker();
                });
            </script>
        </body>
    </html>
### Kendo UI DataViz

1. Download Kendo UI DataViz and extract the distribution zip file to a convenient location.
1. Copy the **/js** and **/styles** directories of the Kendo UI DataViz distribution to your web application root directory.
1. Include the Kendo UI DataViz JavaScript and CSS files in the `head` tag of your HTML page:

        <!-- Kendo UI DataViz CSS -->
        <link href="styles/kendo.dataviz.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        <!-- jQuery JavaScript -->
        <script src="js/jquery.min.js"></script>
        <!-- Kendo UI DataViz combined JavaScript -->
        <script src="js/kendo.dataviz.min.js"></script>
1. Initialize a Kendo UI DataViz Widget (the Kendo Radial Gauge in this example):

        <!-- HTML element from which the Kendo Radial Gauge would be initialized -->
        <div id="gauge"></div>
        <script>
        $(function() {
            $("#gauge").kendoRadialGauge();
        });
        </script>

Here is the complete example:

    <!doctype html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <title>Kendo UI DataViz</title>
            <link href="styles/kendo.dataviz.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
            <script src="js/jquery.min.js"></script>
            <script src="js/kendo.dataviz.min.js"></script>
        </head>
        <body>
            <div id="gauge"></div>
            <script>
            $(function() {
                $("#gauge").kendoRadialGauge();
            });
            </script>
        </body>
    </html>
### Kendo UI Mobile

1. Download Kendo UI Mobile and extract the distribution zip file to a convenient location.
1. Copy the **/js** and **/styles** directories of the Kendo UI Mobile distribution to your web application root directory.
1. Include the Kendo UI Mobile JavaScript and CSS files in the `head` tag of your HTML page:

        <!-- Kendo UI Mobile CSS -->
        <link href="styles/kendo.mobile.all.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        <!-- jQuery JavaScript -->
        <script src="js/jquery.min.js"></script>
        <!-- Kendo UI Mobile combined JavaScript -->
        <script src="js/kendo.mobile.min.js"></script>
1. Initialize a Kendo Mobile Application

        <!-- Kendo Mobile View -->
        <div data-role="view" data-title="View" id="index">
            <!--Kendo Mobile Header -->
            <header data-role="header">
                <!--Kendo Mobile NavBar widget -->
                <div data-role="navbar">
                    <span data-role="view-title"></span>
                </div>
            </header>
            <!--Kendo Mobile ListView widget -->
            <ul data-role="listview">
              <li>Item 1</li>
              <li>Item 2</li>
            </ul>
            <!--Kendo Mobile Footer -->
            <footer data-role="footer">
                <!-- Kendo Mobile TabStrip widget -->
                <div data-role="tabstrip">
                    <a data-icon="home" href="#index">Home</a>
                    <a data-icon="settings" href="#settings">Settings</a>
                </div>
            </footer>
        </div>
        <script>
        // Initialize a new Kendo Mobile Application
        var app = new kendo.mobile.Application();
        </script>

Here is the complete example:

    <!doctype html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <title>Kendo UI Mobile</title>
            <link href="styles/kendo.mobile.all.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
            <script src="js/jquery.min.js"></script>
            <script src="js/kendo.mobile.min.js"></script>
        </head>
        <body>
            <div data-role="view" data-title="View" id="index">
                <header data-role="header">
                    <div data-role="navbar">
                        <span data-role="view-title"></span>
                    </div>
                </header>
                <ul data-role="listview">
                  <li>Item 1</li>
                  <li>Item 2</li>
                </ul>
                <footer data-role="footer">
                    <div data-role="tabstrip">
                        <a data-icon="home" href="#index">Home</a>
                        <a data-icon="settings" href="#settings">Settings</a>
                    </div>
                </footer>
            </div>
            <script>
            var app = new kendo.mobile.Application();
            </script>
        </body>
    </html>

## Server-side wrappers

Kendo UI provides server-side wrappers for ASP.NET, PHP and JSP. Those are classes (ASP.NET and PHP) or XML tags (JSP)
which allow configuring the Kendo UI widgets with server-side code.

You can find more info about the server-side wrappers here:

- [Get Started with Kendo UI Complete for ASP.NET MVC](http://docs.kendoui.com/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/introduction)
- [Get Started with Kendo UI Complete for JSP](http://docs.kendoui.com/getting-started/using-kendo-with/php/introduction)
- [Get Started with Kendo UI Complete for PHP](http://docs.kendoui.com/getting-started/using-kendo-with/jsp/introduction)

## Next Steps

### Kendo UI videos

You can watch the videos in the [Kendo UI YouTube channel](http://www.youtube.com/kendouitv).

### Kendo UI Dojo

A lot of interactive tutorials are available in the [Kendo UI Dojo](http://www.kendoui.com/dojo.aspx).

### Further reading

1. [Kendo UI Widgets](/getting-started/widgets)
1. [Data Attribute Initialization](/getting-started/data-attribute-initialization)
1. [Requirements](/getting-started/technical-requirements)

### Examples

1. [Online demos](http://demos.kendoui.com)
1. [Code library projects](http://www.kendoui.com/code-library.aspx)
1. Examples available on github
-   [ASP.NET MVC examples](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-examples-asp-net-mvc/)
-   [ASP.NET MVC Kendo UI Music Store](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-music-store)
-   [ASP.NET MVC Kendo UI Mobile Music Store](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-mobile-music-store)
-   [ASP.NET WebForms examples](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-examples-asp-net/)
-   [JSP examples](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-examples-java)
-   [Kendo Mobile Sushi](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-mobile-sushi)
-   [PHP examples](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-examples-php)
-   [Ruby on Rails examples](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-examples-rails)

Commit message:

Note about common CSS registered first

getting-started/introduction.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
meta_title: HTML5, jQuery-based framework | Kendo UI
meta_description: Kendo UI framework overview: UI components, rich data vizualization framework, auto-adaptive mobile widgets and all tools for building rich web apps.
slug: gs-introduction
tags: 101, Getting Started, internals
publish: true
ordinal: 01
---

# What is Kendo UI

Kendo UI is an HTML5, jQuery-based framework for building modern web apps. The framework features lots of UI widgets, a rich data vizualization framework,
an auto-adaptive Mobile framework, and all of the tools needed for HTML5 app development, such as Data Binding, Templating, Drag-and-Drop API, and more.

Kendo UI comes in different bundles:

* Kendo UI Web - HTML5 widgets for desktop browsing experience.
* Kendo UI DataViz - HTML5 data vizualization widgets.
* Kendo UI Mobile - HTML5 framework for building hybrid mobile applications.
* Kendo UI Complete - includes Kendo UI Web, Kendo UI DataViz and Kendo UI Mobile.
* Kendo UI Complete for ASP.NET MVC - Kendo UI Complete plus ASP.NET MVC wrappers for Kendo UI Web and Kendo UI DataViz.
* Kendo UI Complete for JSP - Kendo UI Complete plus JSP wrappers for Kendo UI Web and Kendo UI DataViz.
* Kendo UI Complete for PHP - Kendo UI Complete plus PHP wrappers for Kendo UI Web and Kendo UI DataViz.

# Installing and Getting Started with Kendo UI

You can download all Kendo UI bundles from the [download page](http://www.kendoui.com/download).

The distribution zip file contains the following:

* /examples - quick start demos.
* /js - minified JavaScript files.
* /src - complete source code. Not available in the trial distribution.
* /styles - minified CSS files and other theme resources.
* /wrappers - server-side wrappers. Available in Kendo UI Complete for ASP.NET MVC, JSP or PHP.
* changelog.html - Kendo UI release notes.

## Using Kendo UI

To use Kendo UI in your HTML page you need to include the required JavaScript and CSS files.

### Kendo UI Web

1. Download Kendo UI Web and extract the distribution zip file to a convenient location.
1. Copy the **/js** and **/styles** directories of the Kendo UI Web distribution to your web application root directory.
1. Include the Kendo UI Web JavaScript and CSS files in the `head` tag of your HTML page. **Make sure the common CSS file is registered before the theme CSS file.**

        <!-- Common Kendo UI Web CSS -->
        <link href="styles/kendo.common.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        <!-- Default Kendo UI Web theme CSS -->
        <link href="styles/kendo.default.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        <!-- jQuery JavaScript -->
        <script src="js/jquery.min.js"></script>
        <!-- Kendo UI Web combined JavaScript -->
        <script src="js/kendo.web.min.js"></script>
1. Initialize a Kendo UI Web Widget (the Kendo DatePicker in this example):

        <!-- HTML element from which the Kendo DatePicker would be initialized -->
        <input id="datepicker" />
        <script>
        $(function() {
            // Initialize the Kendo DatePicker by calling the kendoDatePicker jQuery plugin
            $("#datepicker").kendoDatePicker();
        });
        </script>

Here is the complete example:

    <!doctype html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <title>Kendo UI Web</title>
            <link href="styles/kendo.common.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
            <link href="styles/kendo.default.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
            <script src="js/jquery.min.js"></script>
            <script src="js/kendo.web.min.js"></script>
        </head>
        <body>
            <input id="datepicker" />
            <script>
                $(function() {
                    $("#datepicker").kendoDatePicker();
                });
            </script>
        </body>
    </html>
### Kendo UI DataViz

1. Download Kendo UI DataViz and extract the distribution zip file to a convenient location.
1. Copy the **/js** and **/styles** directories of the Kendo UI DataViz distribution to your web application root directory.
1. Include the Kendo UI DataViz JavaScript and CSS files in the `head` tag of your HTML page:

        <!-- Kendo UI DataViz CSS -->
        <link href="styles/kendo.dataviz.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        <!-- jQuery JavaScript -->
        <script src="js/jquery.min.js"></script>
        <!-- Kendo UI DataViz combined JavaScript -->
        <script src="js/kendo.dataviz.min.js"></script>
1. Initialize a Kendo UI DataViz Widget (the Kendo Radial Gauge in this example):

        <!-- HTML element from which the Kendo Radial Gauge would be initialized -->
        <div id="gauge"></div>
        <script>
        $(function() {
            $("#gauge").kendoRadialGauge();
        });
        </script>

Here is the complete example:

    <!doctype html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <title>Kendo UI DataViz</title>
            <link href="styles/kendo.dataviz.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
            <script src="js/jquery.min.js"></script>
            <script src="js/kendo.dataviz.min.js"></script>
        </head>
        <body>
            <div id="gauge"></div>
            <script>
            $(function() {
                $("#gauge").kendoRadialGauge();
            });
            </script>
        </body>
    </html>
### Kendo UI Mobile

1. Download Kendo UI Mobile and extract the distribution zip file to a convenient location.
1. Copy the **/js** and **/styles** directories of the Kendo UI Mobile distribution to your web application root directory.
1. Include the Kendo UI Mobile JavaScript and CSS files in the `head` tag of your HTML page:

        <!-- Kendo UI Mobile CSS -->
        <link href="styles/kendo.mobile.all.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
        <!-- jQuery JavaScript -->
        <script src="js/jquery.min.js"></script>
        <!-- Kendo UI Mobile combined JavaScript -->
        <script src="js/kendo.mobile.min.js"></script>
1. Initialize a Kendo Mobile Application

        <!-- Kendo Mobile View -->
        <div data-role="view" data-title="View" id="index">
            <!--Kendo Mobile Header -->
            <header data-role="header">
                <!--Kendo Mobile NavBar widget -->
                <div data-role="navbar">
                    <span data-role="view-title"></span>
                </div>
            </header>
            <!--Kendo Mobile ListView widget -->
            <ul data-role="listview">
              <li>Item 1</li>
              <li>Item 2</li>
            </ul>
            <!--Kendo Mobile Footer -->
            <footer data-role="footer">
                <!-- Kendo Mobile TabStrip widget -->
                <div data-role="tabstrip">
                    <a data-icon="home" href="#index">Home</a>
                    <a data-icon="settings" href="#settings">Settings</a>
                </div>
            </footer>
        </div>
        <script>
        // Initialize a new Kendo Mobile Application
        var app = new kendo.mobile.Application();
        </script>

Here is the complete example:

    <!doctype html>
    <html>
        <head>
            <title>Kendo UI Mobile</title>
            <link href="styles/kendo.mobile.all.min.css" rel="stylesheet" />
            <script src="js/jquery.min.js"></script>
            <script src="js/kendo.mobile.min.js"></script>
        </head>
        <body>
            <div data-role="view" data-title="View" id="index">
                <header data-role="header">
                    <div data-role="navbar">
                        <span data-role="view-title"></span>
                    </div>
                </header>
                <ul data-role="listview">
                  <li>Item 1</li>
                  <li>Item 2</li>
                </ul>
                <footer data-role="footer">
                    <div data-role="tabstrip">
                        <a data-icon="home" href="#index">Home</a>
                        <a data-icon="settings" href="#settings">Settings</a>
                    </div>
                </footer>
            </div>
            <script>
            var app = new kendo.mobile.Application();
            </script>
        </body>
    </html>

## Server-side wrappers

Kendo UI provides server-side wrappers for ASP.NET, PHP and JSP. Those are classes (ASP.NET and PHP) or XML tags (JSP)
which allow configuring the Kendo UI widgets with server-side code.

You can find more info about the server-side wrappers here:

- [Get Started with Kendo UI Complete for ASP.NET MVC](http://docs.kendoui.com/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/introduction)
- [Get Started with Kendo UI Complete for JSP](http://docs.kendoui.com/getting-started/using-kendo-with/php/introduction)
- [Get Started with Kendo UI Complete for PHP](http://docs.kendoui.com/getting-started/using-kendo-with/jsp/introduction)

## Next Steps

### Kendo UI videos

You can watch the videos in the [Kendo UI YouTube channel](http://www.youtube.com/kendouitv).

### Kendo UI Dojo

A lot of interactive tutorials are available in the [Kendo UI Dojo](http://www.kendoui.com/dojo.aspx).

### Further reading

1. [Kendo UI Widgets](/getting-started/widgets)
1. [Data Attribute Initialization](/getting-started/data-attribute-initialization)
1. [Requirements](/getting-started/technical-requirements)

### Examples

1. [Online demos](http://demos.kendoui.com)
1. [Code library projects](http://www.kendoui.com/code-library.aspx)
1. Examples available on github
-   [ASP.NET MVC examples](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-examples-asp-net-mvc/)
-   [ASP.NET MVC Kendo UI Music Store](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-music-store)
-   [ASP.NET MVC Kendo UI Mobile Music Store](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-mobile-music-store)
-   [ASP.NET WebForms examples](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-examples-asp-net/)
-   [JSP examples](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-examples-java)
-   [Kendo Mobile Sushi](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-mobile-sushi)
-   [PHP examples](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-examples-php)
-   [Ruby on Rails examples](https://github.com/telerik/kendo-examples-rails)
