getting-started/widgets.md, before:

---
title: Widgets
meta_title: Kendo UI widgets
meta_description: Initialize Kendo UI widgets, set configuration, get the client object, use event binding.
slug: gs-widgets
tags: 101, Getting Started, widgets
publish: true
---

# Kendo UI Widgets

Kendo UI is based on the [jQuery](http://jquery.com) library. The Kendo UI widgets are exposed as jQuery plugins. The name of the jQuery plugin is formed
by adding the "kendo" prefix to the name of the Kendo UI widget. For example the Kendo AutoComplete is exposed as "kendoAutoComplete". Kendo UI Mobile widgets
are exposed by adding the "kendoMobile" prefix to the name of the widget e.g. "kendoMobileListView".

## Initializing Kendo UI widgets with jQuery

Kendo UI widgets are created from existing HTML elements. You just need to find the target element using jQuery and call the corresponding jQuery plugin.

### Example - initialize a Kendo UI widget

    <input id="autocomplete" />
    <script>
    $("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete(["Apples", "Oranges", "Grapes"]);
    </script>

The `$("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete(["Apples", "Oranges", "Grapes"]);` statement does two things:

1. Finds the element whose `id` attribute set to `autocomplete`. The `#autocomplete` argument is an [id selector](http://api.jquery.com/id-selector/).
1. Initializes a new Kendo AutoComplete widget via the `kendoAutoComplete` jQuery plugin and passes the `["Apples", "Oranges", "Grapes"]` array as configuration.

> **Important:** A Kendo UI widget will **not** be created if jQuery **can't** find the element specified by the selector.

You can use any valid [jQuery selector](http://api.jquery.com/category/selectors/) when initializing Kendo UI Widgets.

> **Note:** A Kendo UI widget will be initialized for every element that matches the specified jQuery selector.

## Configuring Kendo UI widgets

You can configure a Kendo UI widget by passing a configuration object as an argument of the jQuery plugin. That object is a set of key/value pairs which configure the Kendo UI widget.

### Example - configure a Kendo UI widget

    <div id="grid"></div>
    <script>
    $("#grid").kendoGrid({
      height: 200,
      columns:[
          {
              field: "FirstName",
              title: "First Name"
          },
          {
              field: "LastName",
              title: "Last Name"
          }
      ],
      dataSource: {
          data: [
              {
                  FirstName: "John",
                  LastName: "Doe"
              },
              {
                  FirstName: "Jane",
                  LastName: "Doe"
              }
          ]
      }
    });
    </script>

This example sets the [height](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/web/grid#height-numberstring), [columns](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/web/grid#columns-array) and [dataSource](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/web/grid#datasource-kendodatadatasource--object) configuration options of the grid widget.

> The [api](/api) documentation lists all configuration options supported by each Kendo UI widget.

## Getting reference to a Kendo UI widget

When you call a Kendo jQuery plugin method (e.g. `$("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete()`) a new instance of the widget is initialized. That instance is associated with the target element
and can be retrieved later using the [jQuery data](http://api.jquery.com/data/) method.

### Example - get reference to a Kendo UI widget

    <input id="autocomplete" />
    <script>
    $("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete(["Apples", "Oranges", "Grapes"]);
    var autocomplete = $("#autocomplete").data("kendoAutoComplete");
    </script>

The `$("#autocomplete").data("kendoAutoComplete")` statement returns the Kendo AutoComplete widget instance.

> Kendo UI widget instances are associated with their elements via the [jQuery data](http://api.jquery.com/data/) method. The key passed to the jQuery data method
is the name of the jQuery plugin itself - "kendoAutoComplete", "kendoGrid" etc.

## Using the API of a Kendo UI widget

The Kendo UI widgets expose a set of methods which can alter or query their state.

### Example - use the API of a Kendo UI widget

    <input id="autocomplete" />
    <script>
    $("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete(["Apples", "Oranges", "Grapes"]);
    var autocomplete = $("#autocomplete").data("kendoAutoComplete");
    autocomplete.value("Cherries");
    var value = autocomplete.value();
    alert(value); // Displays "Cherries"
    </script>

This example does the following:

1. Initializes a Kendo AutoComplete widget.
1. Gets a reference to the AutoComplete. The reference is required for invoking methods.
1. Sets the value of the AutoComplete by invoking the [value](/api/web/autocomplete#value) method and passing the string `"Cherries"` as the argument.
1. Gets the value of the AutoComplete by invoking the [value](/api/web/autocomplete#value) without arguments.

> The [api](/api) documentation lists all methods supported by each Kendo UI widget.

## Subscribing to the events of a Kendo UI widget

Kendo UI widget events are fired when their state is changed. There are two ways to handle events:

* Specify the JavaScript function which will handle the event during widget initialization.
* Use the `bind` method of the widget.

### Example - subscribe to an event during initialization

    <input id="autocomplete" />
    <script>
    function autocomplete_change() {
        // Handle the "change" event
    }
    $("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete({
        change: autocomplete_change
    });
    </script>

This example initializes a Kendo AutoComplete widget and configures it to invoke the `autocomplete_change` JavaScript function when the **change** event is fired.

### Example - subscribe to an event using the bind method

    <input id="autocomplete" />
    <script>
    function autocomplete_change() {
        // Handle the "change" event
    }
    $("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete();
    var autocomplete = $("#autocomplete").data("kendoAutoComplete");
    autocomplete.bind("change", autocomplete_change);
    </script>

This `autocomplete.bind("change", autocomplete_change)` statement attaches the `autocomplete_change` JavaScript function to the **change** event. As a result, the `autocomplete_change`
function will be invoked when the **change** event is fired.

> The [api](/api) documentation lists all events supported by each Kendo UI widget.

### Event Handler

The event handler is the JavaScript function invoked when the event is fired. The argument of the event handler is a JavaScript object which contains event specific data.
You can get a reference of the widget which fired the event via the `sender` field of the event argument.

The function context of the event handler (available via the `this` keyword) is set to the instance of the widget which fired the event.

#### Example - use the sender field of the event argument

    <input id="autocomplete" />
    <script>
    function autocomplete_change(e) {
        var autocomplete = e.sender;
        var value = autocomplete.value();
        alert(value); // Displays the value of the AutoComplete widget
    }
    $("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete({
        change: autocomplete_change
    });
    </script>

#### Example - use the "this" keyword

    <input id="autocomplete" />
    <script>
    function autocomplete_change(e) {
        var autocomplete = this;
        var value = autocomplete.value();
        alert(value); // Displays the value of the AutoComplete widget
    }
    $("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete({
        change: autocomplete_change
    });
    </script>

Commit message:

adding text about the jQuery plugin methods returning the selected element instead of the Kendo UI widget instance

getting-started/widgets.md, after:

---
title: Widgets
meta_title: Kendo UI widgets
meta_description: Initialize Kendo UI widgets, set configuration, get the client object, use event binding.
slug: gs-widgets
tags: 101, Getting Started, widgets
publish: true
---

# Kendo UI Widgets

Kendo UI is based on the [jQuery](http://jquery.com) library. The Kendo UI widgets are exposed as jQuery plugins. The name of the jQuery plugin is formed
by adding the "kendo" prefix to the name of the Kendo UI widget. For example the Kendo AutoComplete is exposed as "kendoAutoComplete". Kendo UI Mobile widgets
are exposed by adding the "kendoMobile" prefix to the name of the widget e.g. "kendoMobileListView".

## Initializing Kendo UI widgets with jQuery

Kendo UI widgets are created from existing HTML elements. You just need to find the target element using jQuery and call the corresponding jQuery plugin.

### Example - initialize a Kendo UI widget

    <input id="autocomplete" />
    <script>
    $("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete(["Apples", "Oranges", "Grapes"]);
    </script>

The `$("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete(["Apples", "Oranges", "Grapes"]);` statement does two things:

1. Finds the element whose `id` attribute set to `autocomplete`. The `#autocomplete` argument is an [id selector](http://api.jquery.com/id-selector/).
1. Initializes a new Kendo AutoComplete widget via the `kendoAutoComplete` jQuery plugin and passes the `["Apples", "Oranges", "Grapes"]` array as configuration.

> **Important:** A Kendo UI widget will **not** be created if jQuery **can't** find the element specified by the selector.

You can use any valid [jQuery selector](http://api.jquery.com/category/selectors/) when initializing Kendo UI Widgets.

> **Note:** A Kendo UI widget will be initialized for every element that matches the specified jQuery selector.

## Configuring Kendo UI widgets

You can configure a Kendo UI widget by passing a configuration object as an argument of the jQuery plugin. That object is a set of key/value pairs which configure the Kendo UI widget.

### Example - configure a Kendo UI widget

    <div id="grid"></div>
    <script>
    $("#grid").kendoGrid({
      height: 200,
      columns:[
          {
              field: "FirstName",
              title: "First Name"
          },
          {
              field: "LastName",
              title: "Last Name"
          }
      ],
      dataSource: {
          data: [
              {
                  FirstName: "John",
                  LastName: "Doe"
              },
              {
                  FirstName: "Jane",
                  LastName: "Doe"
              }
          ]
      }
    });
    </script>

This example sets the [height](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/web/grid#height-numberstring), [columns](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/web/grid#columns-array) and [dataSource](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/web/grid#datasource-kendodatadatasource--object) configuration options of the grid widget.

> The [api](/api) documentation lists all configuration options supported by each Kendo UI widget.

## Getting reference to a Kendo UI widget

Kendo UI widgets are initialized with a jQuery plugin method, as shown above. Calling one of these methods will not return the Kendo UI widget instance, though. Instead, the jQuery convention of returning the selected DOM element is maintained. This allows jQuery methods to be chained on the selected element, but does not provide immediate access to the Kendo UI widget instance.

To get a reference to a widget instance, use the [jQuery data](http://api.jquery.com/data/) method to ask for the control by specifying the control type, prefixed with "kendo".

### Example - get reference to a Kendo UI widget

    <input id="autocomplete" />
    <script>
    $("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete(["Apples", "Oranges", "Grapes"]);
    var autocomplete = $("#autocomplete").data("kendoAutoComplete");
    </script>

The `$("#autocomplete").data("kendoAutoComplete")` statement returns the Kendo AutoComplete widget instance.

> Kendo UI widget instances are associated with their elements via the [jQuery data](http://api.jquery.com/data/) method. The key passed to the jQuery data method
is the name of the jQuery plugin itself - "kendoAutoComplete", "kendoGrid" etc.

## Using the API of a Kendo UI widget

The Kendo UI widgets expose a set of methods which can alter or query their state.

### Example - use the API of a Kendo UI widget

    <input id="autocomplete" />
    <script>
    $("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete(["Apples", "Oranges", "Grapes"]);
    var autocomplete = $("#autocomplete").data("kendoAutoComplete");
    autocomplete.value("Cherries");
    var value = autocomplete.value();
    alert(value); // Displays "Cherries"
    </script>

This example does the following:

1. Initializes a Kendo AutoComplete widget.
1. Gets a reference to the AutoComplete. The reference is required for invoking methods.
1. Sets the value of the AutoComplete by invoking the [value](/api/web/autocomplete#value) method and passing the string `"Cherries"` as the argument.
1. Gets the value of the AutoComplete by invoking the [value](/api/web/autocomplete#value) without arguments.

> The [api](/api) documentation lists all methods supported by each Kendo UI widget.

## Subscribing to the events of a Kendo UI widget

Kendo UI widget events are fired when their state is changed. There are two ways to handle events:

* Specify the JavaScript function which will handle the event during widget initialization.
* Use the `bind` method of the widget.

### Example - subscribe to an event during initialization

    <input id="autocomplete" />
    <script>
    function autocomplete_change() {
        // Handle the "change" event
    }
    $("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete({
        change: autocomplete_change
    });
    </script>

This example initializes a Kendo AutoComplete widget and configures it to invoke the `autocomplete_change` JavaScript function when the **change** event is fired.

### Example - subscribe to an event using the bind method

    <input id="autocomplete" />
    <script>
    function autocomplete_change() {
        // Handle the "change" event
    }
    $("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete();
    var autocomplete = $("#autocomplete").data("kendoAutoComplete");
    autocomplete.bind("change", autocomplete_change);
    </script>

This `autocomplete.bind("change", autocomplete_change)` statement attaches the `autocomplete_change` JavaScript function to the **change** event. As a result, the `autocomplete_change`
function will be invoked when the **change** event is fired.

> The [api](/api) documentation lists all events supported by each Kendo UI widget.

### Event Handler

The event handler is the JavaScript function invoked when the event is fired. The argument of the event handler is a JavaScript object which contains event specific data.
You can get a reference of the widget which fired the event via the `sender` field of the event argument.

The function context of the event handler (available via the `this` keyword) is set to the instance of the widget which fired the event.

#### Example - use the sender field of the event argument

    <input id="autocomplete" />
    <script>
    function autocomplete_change(e) {
        var autocomplete = e.sender;
        var value = autocomplete.value();
        alert(value); // Displays the value of the AutoComplete widget
    }
    $("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete({
        change: autocomplete_change
    });
    </script>

#### Example - use the "this" keyword

    <input id="autocomplete" />
    <script>
    function autocomplete_change(e) {
        var autocomplete = this;
        var value = autocomplete.value();
        alert(value); // Displays the value of the AutoComplete widget
    }
    $("#autocomplete").kendoAutoComplete({
        change: autocomplete_change
    });
    </script>
