api/mobile/scroller.md, before:

---
title: kendo.mobile.ui.Scroller
meta_title: Configuration, methods and events in Mobile Scroller widget
meta_description: How to configure a mobile scroller in Kendo UI HTML5 mobile framework, use methods to scroll the container to a specified location and control behavior with events.
slug: api-mobile-scroller
relatedDocs: gs-mobile-scroller
tags: api,mobile
publish: true
---

# kendo.mobile.ui.Scroller

Represents the Kendo UI Mobile Scroller widget. Inherits from [kendo.mobile.ui.Widget](/api/framework/mobilewidget).

## Configuration

### zoom `Boolean`*(default: false)*

If set to true, the user can zoom in/out the contents of the widget using the pinch/zoom gesture.

### elastic `Boolean`*(default: true)*

 Weather or not to allow out of bounds dragging and easing.

### pullOffset `Number`*(default: 140)*

 The threshold below which a releasing the scroller will trigger the pull event.
Has effect only when the pullToRefresh option is set to true.

### pullTemplate `String`*(default: Pull to refresh)*

 The message template displayed when the user pulls the scroller.
Has effect only when the pullToRefresh option is set to true.

### pullToRefresh `Boolean`*(default: false)*

 If set to true, the scroller will display a hint when the user pulls the container beyond its top limit.
If a pull beyond the specified pullOffset occurs, a pull event will be triggered.

### refreshTemplate `String`*(default: Refreshing)*

 The message template displayed during the refresh.
Has effect only when the pullToRefresh option is set to true.

### releaseTemplate `String`*(default: Release to refresh)*

 The message template displayed when the user pulls the scroller below the
pullOffset, indicating that pullToRefresh will occur.
Has effect only when the pullToRefresh option is set to true.

## Methods

### destroy
Prepares the **Scroller** for safe removal from DOM. Detaches all event handlers and removes jQuery.data attributes to avoid memory leaks. Calls destroy method of any child Kendo widgets.

> **Important:** This method does not remove the Scroller element from DOM.

#### Example

    var scroller = $("#scroller").data("kendoMobileScroller");

    // detach events
    scroller.destroy();

### pullHandled

Indicate that the pull event is handled (i.e. data from the server has been retrieved).

#### Custom pull to refresh view scroll handling

     <div data-role="view" data-init="initPullToRefreshScroller">
         <h2 id="pull-to-refresh-clock"></h2>
     </div>
    <script>

     function updateClock() {
         pullTime = kendo.toString(new Date(), "hh:mm:ss tt" );
         $("#pull-to-refresh-clock").html("Last update at " + pullTime + ". <br /> Pull to refresh.");
     }

     function initPullToRefreshScroller(e) {
         var scroller = e.view.scroller;

         scroller.setOptions({
             pullToRefresh: true,
             pull: function() {
                 updateClock();
                 setTimeout(function() { scroller.pullHandled(); }, 400);
             }
         })
     }
    </script>

### reset

Scrolls the container to the top.

### scrollHeight

Returns the height in pixels of the scroller content.

### scrollTo

Scrolls the container to the specified location. The arguments should be negative numbers.

#### Parameters

##### x `Number`

The horizontal offset in pixels to scroll to.

##### y `Number`

The vertical offset in pixels to scroll to.

#### Example

    var scroller = $("#scroller").data("kendoMobileScroller");

    scroller.scrollTo(0, -10); // scroll 10 pixels down

### scrollWidth

Returns the width in pixels of the scroller content.

## Events

### pull

Fires when the pull option is set to true, and the user pulls the scrolling container beyond the specified pullThreshold.

### resize

Fires when the scroller dimensions change (e.g. orientation change or resize)

### scroll

Fires when the user scrolls through the content.

#### Bind to scroller scroll event in view init

    <div data-role="view" data-init="attachToScroller"> ... </div>
     <script>
        function attachToScroller(e) {
          var scroller = e.view.scroller;
          scroller.bind("scroll", function(e) {
             console.log(e.scrollTop);
             console.log(e.scrollLeft);
          });
        }
     </script>

#### Event Data

##### e.scrollTop `Number`

The number of pixels that are hidden from view above the scrollable area.

##### e.scrollLeft `Number`

The number of pixels that are hidden from view to the left of the scrollable area.

Commit message:

Add native scroller config option docs.

api/mobile/scroller.md, after:

---
title: kendo.mobile.ui.Scroller
meta_title: Configuration, methods and events in Mobile Scroller widget
meta_description: How to configure a mobile scroller in Kendo UI HTML5 mobile framework, use methods to scroll the container to a specified location and control behavior with events.
slug: api-mobile-scroller
relatedDocs: gs-mobile-scroller
tags: api,mobile
publish: true
---

# kendo.mobile.ui.Scroller

Represents the Kendo UI Mobile Scroller widget. Inherits from [kendo.mobile.ui.Widget](/api/framework/mobilewidget).

## Configuration

### zoom `Boolean`*(default: false)*

If set to true, the user can zoom in/out the contents of the widget using the pinch/zoom gesture.

### elastic `Boolean`*(default: true)*

 Weather or not to allow out of bounds dragging and easing.

### pullOffset `Number`*(default: 140)*

 The threshold below which a releasing the scroller will trigger the pull event.
Has effect only when the pullToRefresh option is set to true.

### pullTemplate `String`*(default: Pull to refresh)*

 The message template displayed when the user pulls the scroller.
Has effect only when the pullToRefresh option is set to true.

### pullToRefresh `Boolean`*(default: false)*

 If set to true, the scroller will display a hint when the user pulls the container beyond its top limit.
If a pull beyond the specified pullOffset occurs, a pull event will be triggered.

### refreshTemplate `String`*(default: Refreshing)*

 The message template displayed during the refresh.
Has effect only when the pullToRefresh option is set to true.

### releaseTemplate `String`*(default: Release to refresh)*

 The message template displayed when the user pulls the scroller below the
pullOffset, indicating that pullToRefresh will occur.
Has effect only when the pullToRefresh option is set to true.

### useNative `Boolean`*(default: false)*

 If set to true, the scroller will use the native scrolling available in the current platform. This should help with form issues on some platforms (namely Android and WP8).
Keep in mind that some platforms do not have native one finger scrolling (iOS < 5, Android < 3).

## Methods

### destroy
Prepares the **Scroller** for safe removal from DOM. Detaches all event handlers and removes jQuery.data attributes to avoid memory leaks. Calls destroy method of any child Kendo widgets.

> **Important:** This method does not remove the Scroller element from DOM.

#### Example

    var scroller = $("#scroller").data("kendoMobileScroller");

    // detach events
    scroller.destroy();

### pullHandled

Indicate that the pull event is handled (i.e. data from the server has been retrieved).

#### Custom pull to refresh view scroll handling

     <div data-role="view" data-init="initPullToRefreshScroller">
         <h2 id="pull-to-refresh-clock"></h2>
     </div>
    <script>

     function updateClock() {
         pullTime = kendo.toString(new Date(), "hh:mm:ss tt" );
         $("#pull-to-refresh-clock").html("Last update at " + pullTime + ". <br /> Pull to refresh.");
     }

     function initPullToRefreshScroller(e) {
         var scroller = e.view.scroller;

         scroller.setOptions({
             pullToRefresh: true,
             pull: function() {
                 updateClock();
                 setTimeout(function() { scroller.pullHandled(); }, 400);
             }
         })
     }
    </script>

### reset

Scrolls the container to the top.

### scrollHeight

Returns the height in pixels of the scroller content.

### scrollTo

Scrolls the container to the specified location. The arguments should be negative numbers.

#### Parameters

##### x `Number`

The horizontal offset in pixels to scroll to.

##### y `Number`

The vertical offset in pixels to scroll to.

#### Example

    var scroller = $("#scroller").data("kendoMobileScroller");

    scroller.scrollTo(0, -10); // scroll 10 pixels down

### scrollWidth

Returns the width in pixels of the scroller content.

## Events

### pull

Fires when the pull option is set to true, and the user pulls the scrolling container beyond the specified pullThreshold.

### resize

Fires when the scroller dimensions change (e.g. orientation change or resize)

### scroll

Fires when the user scrolls through the content.

#### Bind to scroller scroll event in view init

    <div data-role="view" data-init="attachToScroller"> ... </div>
     <script>
        function attachToScroller(e) {
          var scroller = e.view.scroller;
          scroller.bind("scroll", function(e) {
             console.log(e.scrollTop);
             console.log(e.scrollLeft);
          });
        }
     </script>

#### Event Data

##### e.scrollTop `Number`

The number of pixels that are hidden from view above the scrollable area.

##### e.scrollLeft `Number`

The number of pixels that are hidden from view to the left of the scrollable area.
