api/mobile/splitview.md, before:

---
title: kendo.mobile.ui.SplitView
meta_title: Configuration, methods and events of Kendo UI Mobile SplitView
meta_description: See how to define horizontal or vertical style of the Kendo UI Mobile SplitView widget and learn which events are fired.
slug: api-mobile-splitview
relatedDocs: gs-mobile-splitview
tags: api,mobile
publish: true
---

# kendo.mobile.ui.SplitView

## Configuration

### style `String`*(default: "horizontal")*

 Defines the SplitView style - horizontal or vertical.

## Methods

### destroy
Prepares the **SplitView** for safe removal from DOM. Detaches all event handlers and removes jQuery.data attributes to avoid memory leaks. Calls destroy method of any child Kendo widgets.

> **Important:** This method does not remove the SplitView element from DOM.

#### Example

    var splitView = $("#splitView").data("kendoMobileSplitView");

    // detach events
    splitView.destroy();

## Events

### init

Fires after the mobile SplitView and its child widgets are initialized.

#### Event Data

##### e.view `jQuery`

The mobile SplitView instance

### show

Fires when the mobile SplitView becomes visible.

#### Event Data

##### e.view `jQuery`

The mobile SplitView instance

Commit message:

Document and example of collapsible splitview

api/mobile/splitview.md, after:

---
title: kendo.mobile.ui.SplitView
meta_title: Configuration, methods and events of Kendo UI Mobile SplitView
meta_description: See how to define horizontal or vertical style of the Kendo UI Mobile SplitView widget and learn which events are fired.
slug: api-mobile-splitview
relatedDocs: gs-mobile-splitview
tags: api,mobile
publish: true
---

# kendo.mobile.ui.SplitView

## Configuration

### style `String`*(default: "horizontal")*

Defines the SplitView style - horizontal or vertical.

## Methods

### destroy

Prepares the **SplitView** for safe removal from DOM. Detaches all event handlers and removes jQuery.data attributes to avoid memory leaks. Calls destroy method of any child Kendo widgets.

> **Important:** This method does not remove the SplitView element from DOM.

#### Example

    var splitView = $("#splitView").data("kendoMobileSplitView");

    // detach events
    splitView.destroy();

### expandPanes

Displays the collapsible panes; has effect only when the device is in portrait orientation.

### collapsePanes

Collapses back the collapsible panes (displayed previously with `expandPanes`); has effect only when the device is in portrait orientation.

## Events

### init

Fires after the mobile SplitView and its child widgets are initialized.

#### Event Data

##### e.view `jQuery`

The mobile SplitView instance

### show

Fires when the mobile SplitView becomes visible.

#### Event Data

##### e.view `jQuery`

The mobile SplitView instance
