getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
meta_title: Troubleshooting guide for Kendo UI Complete for ASP.NET MVC
meta_description: Find solutions for common problems which you may face while using Kendo UI Complete for ASP.NET MVC.
slug: mvc-troubleshooting
publish: true
---

# Troubleshooting

This page provides solutions for common problems you may encounter while working with Kendo UI Complete for ASP.NET MVC. In addition you could check the general [Kendo UI troubleshooting help topic](/getting-started/troubleshooting).

## JavaScript error that jQuery is unavailable or undefined

If jQuery is not included (or is included after the Kendo JavaScript files) the Kendo UI widgets will not function as expected.
Check the [Kendo UI troubleshooting help topic](/getting-started/troubleshooting#javascript-error-that-jquery-is-unavailable-or-undefined) for more symptoms.

Make sure that jQuery is included **before** the Kendo JavaScript files. If using ASP.NET bundles move the `Scripts.Render("~/bundles/jquery")` block **before** the Kendo JavaScript files.

## JavaScript error that Kendo widgets are unavailable or undefined

If jQuery is included more than once in the page all existing jQuery plugins (including Kendo UI) will be wiped out. Will also occur
if the [required Kendo JavaScript files](/getting-started/javascript-dependencies) are not included.

Check the [Kendo UI troubleshooting help topic](/getting-started/troubleshooting#javascript-error-that-kendo-widgets-are-unavailable-or-undefined) for more symptoms.

Make sure jQuery is not included more than once in your page. Remove any duplicate `script` references to jQuery. Include all [required Kendo JavaScript files](/getting-started/javascript-dependencies).

If the application is also using Telerik Extensions for ASP.NET MVC tell the `ScriptRegistrar` not to include jQuery:

    Html.Telerik().ScriptRegistrar().jQuery(false)

If using ASP.NET bundles make sure the `Scripts.Render("~/bundles/jquery")` block appears **before** the Kendo JavaScript files. In that case you should not include jQuery as a `script` element.

## Visual Studio IntelliSense does not show the Kendo HtmlHelper extension method

### Solution

1. Make sure the `Kendo.Mvc.UI` namespace is imported in `web.config`.
    * If you are using the WebForms view engine open the **web.config** file in the root folder of your application. Add
     `<add namespace="Kendo.Mvc.UI" />` before the closing `namespaces` tag:

             <namespaces>
                 <add namespace="System.Web.Mvc" />
                 <add namespace="System.Web.Mvc.Ajax" />
                 <add namespace="System.Web.Mvc.Html" />
                 <add namespace="System.Web.Routing" />
                 <add namespace="System.Linq" />
                 <add namespace="System.Collections.Generic" />
                 <add namespace="Kendo.Mvc.UI" />
             </namespaces>
    * If you are using the Razor view engine open the **web.config** file which is in the **Views** folder
     of your application.Add `<add namespace="Kendo.Mvc.UI" />` before the closing `namespaces` tag:

             <system.web.webPages.razor>
                 <pages pageBaseType="System.Web.Mvc.WebViewPage">
                     <namespaces>
                         <add namespace="System.Web.Mvc" />
                         <add namespace="System.Web.Mvc.Ajax" />
                         <add namespace="System.Web.Mvc.Html" />
                         <add namespace="System.Web.Routing" />
                         <add namespace="Kendo.Mvc.UI" />
                     </namespaces>
                 </pages>
             </system.web.webPages.razor>
2. Rebuild your solution.
3. Close and open again the view you were editing. Intellisense should be working now.

## Menu renders too slow in debug mode

The Menu has security trimming functionality, which is enabled by default. Under the hood,
it creates an [AuthorizationContext](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.mvc.authorizationcontext(v=vs.108).aspx] for every menu item
with set Action/Controller. In 'debug' mode those context objects are not cached and as a result there may be delay in rendering the menu in
case there are a lot of items. When your application is deployed and debug mode is disabled the authorization context objects are cached.

More info about ASP.NET debug mode can be found in the Scott Guthrie's blog post: [Don’t run production ASP.NET Applications with debug="true" enabled](http://weblogs.asp.net/scottgu/archive/2006/04/11/Don_1920_t-run-production-ASP.NET-Applications-with-debug_3D001D20_true_1D20_-enabled.aspx).

### Solution

1. Disable security trimming (if not needed or during development). Enable it again when deploying the site.
    * WebForms View Engine

            <%: Html.Kendo().Menu()
                    .SecurityTrimming(false)
            %>
    * Razor

            @(Html.Kendo().Menu()
                  .SecurityTrimming(false)
            )
2. Disable debug mode. Set the `debug` attribute of the `compilation` element in web.config to `false`:

    <compilation debug="false">

## Widget's value is not bound to the Model's property

If widget's name is different than the Model's property then the ModelBinder will not be able to update the model.

### Solution

Verify that the name of the widget is the same as the Model's property you want to update.

> **Important:** If strongly-typed widget is used do not set Name manually, because name is generated automatically.

## Loading icon of AutoComplete/ComboBox/DropDownList/MultiSelect continues spinning

The most common cause of this issue is an [internal server error](http://www.checkupdown.com/status/E500.html).
### Solution

Verify that GET requests are allowed:

        public JsonResult GetCascadeCategories()
        {
            var northwind = new NorthwindDataContext();

            return Json(northwind.Categories, **JsonRequestBehavior.AllowGet**);
        }

or change HTTP verb of the DataSource:

    * WebForms View Engine

            <%: Html.Kendo().ComboBox()
                    .Name("ComboBox")
                    .DataSource(read => {
                        read.Action("GetCascadeCategories", "ComboBox").Type(HttpVerbs.Post);
                    })
            %>
    * Razor

            @(Html.Kendo().ComboBox()
                  .Name("ComboBox")
                  .DataSource(read => {
                      read.Action("GetCascadeCategories", "ComboBox").Type(HttpVerbs.Post);
                  })
            )

Commit message:

Instructions how to upgrade to jQuery 1.9

getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
meta_title: Troubleshooting guide for Kendo UI Complete for ASP.NET MVC
meta_description: Find solutions for common problems which you may face while using Kendo UI Complete for ASP.NET MVC.
slug: mvc-troubleshooting
publish: true
---

# Troubleshooting

This page provides solutions for common problems you may encounter while working with Kendo UI Complete for ASP.NET MVC. In addition you could check the general [Kendo UI troubleshooting help topic](/getting-started/troubleshooting).

## JavaScript error that jQuery is unavailable or undefined

If jQuery is not included (or is included after the Kendo JavaScript files) the Kendo UI widgets will not function as expected.
Check the [Kendo UI troubleshooting help topic](/getting-started/troubleshooting#javascript-error-that-jquery-is-unavailable-or-undefined) for more symptoms.

Make sure that jQuery is included **before** the Kendo JavaScript files. If using ASP.NET bundles move the `Scripts.Render("~/bundles/jquery")` block **before** the Kendo JavaScript files.

## JavaScript error that Kendo widgets are unavailable or undefined

If jQuery is included more than once in the page all existing jQuery plugins (including Kendo UI) will be wiped out. Will also occur
if the [required Kendo JavaScript files](/getting-started/javascript-dependencies) are not included.

Check the [Kendo UI troubleshooting help topic](/getting-started/troubleshooting#javascript-error-that-kendo-widgets-are-unavailable-or-undefined) for more symptoms.

Make sure jQuery is not included more than once in your page. Remove any duplicate `script` references to jQuery. Include all [required Kendo JavaScript files](/getting-started/javascript-dependencies).

If the application is also using Telerik Extensions for ASP.NET MVC tell the `ScriptRegistrar` not to include jQuery:

    Html.Telerik().ScriptRegistrar().jQuery(false)

If using ASP.NET bundles make sure the `Scripts.Render("~/bundles/jquery")` block appears **before** the Kendo JavaScript files. In that case you should not include jQuery as a `script` element.

## JavaScript error that live method is unavailable, undefined or unsupported

This error occurs after upgrading jQuery to 1.9. The `live` method is no longer available in this version of jQuery.
As a result some JavaScript libraries which are often used in ASP.NET MVC applications will throw errors.
Those libraries are **jquery.unobtrusive-ajax**, **jquery.validate** and **jquery.validate.unobtrusive**. You need to update the following packages via [Nuget](http://nuget.org):

* [jQuery.Validation](https://nuget.org/packages/jQuery.Validation)
* [Microsoft.jQuery.Unobtrusive.Ajax](http://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.jQuery.Unobtrusive.Ajax)
* [Microsoft.jQuery.Unobtrusive.Validation](http://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.jQuery.Unobtrusive.Validation)

> **Important**: In ASP.NET MVC 3 applications **jquery.unobtrusive-ajax** and **jquery.validate.unobtrusive** are not installed as NUget packages.
You would need to install them separately. The packages are [Microsoft.jQuery.Unobtrusive.Ajax](http://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.jQuery.Unobtrusive.Ajax) and [Microsoft.jQuery.Unobtrusive.Validation](http://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.jQuery.Unobtrusive.Validation).
First you must delete **jquery.unobtrusive-ajax.js**, **jquery.unobtrusive-ajax.min.js**, **jquery.validate.unobtrusive.js** and **jquery.validate.unobtrusive.min.js**
from your **~/Sripts** folder. Then install Microsoft.jQuery.Unobtrusive.Ajax and Microsoft.jQuery.Unobtrusive.Validation.

## Visual Studio IntelliSense does not show the Kendo HtmlHelper extension method

### Solution

1. Make sure the `Kendo.Mvc.UI` namespace is imported in `web.config`.
    * If you are using the WebForms view engine open the **web.config** file in the root folder of your application. Add
     `<add namespace="Kendo.Mvc.UI" />` before the closing `namespaces` tag:

             <namespaces>
                 <add namespace="System.Web.Mvc" />
                 <add namespace="System.Web.Mvc.Ajax" />
                 <add namespace="System.Web.Mvc.Html" />
                 <add namespace="System.Web.Routing" />
                 <add namespace="System.Linq" />
                 <add namespace="System.Collections.Generic" />
                 <add namespace="Kendo.Mvc.UI" />
             </namespaces>
    * If you are using the Razor view engine open the **web.config** file which is in the **Views** folder
     of your application.Add `<add namespace="Kendo.Mvc.UI" />` before the closing `namespaces` tag:

             <system.web.webPages.razor>
                 <pages pageBaseType="System.Web.Mvc.WebViewPage">
                     <namespaces>
                         <add namespace="System.Web.Mvc" />
                         <add namespace="System.Web.Mvc.Ajax" />
                         <add namespace="System.Web.Mvc.Html" />
                         <add namespace="System.Web.Routing" />
                         <add namespace="Kendo.Mvc.UI" />
                     </namespaces>
                 </pages>
             </system.web.webPages.razor>
2. Rebuild your solution.
3. Close and open again the view you were editing. Intellisense should be working now.

## Menu renders too slow in debug mode

The Menu has security trimming functionality, which is enabled by default. Under the hood,
it creates an [AuthorizationContext](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.mvc.authorizationcontext(v=vs.108).aspx] for every menu item
with set Action/Controller. In 'debug' mode those context objects are not cached and as a result there may be delay in rendering the menu in
case there are a lot of items. When your application is deployed and debug mode is disabled the authorization context objects are cached.

More info about ASP.NET debug mode can be found in the Scott Guthrie's blog post: [Don’t run production ASP.NET Applications with debug="true" enabled](http://weblogs.asp.net/scottgu/archive/2006/04/11/Don_1920_t-run-production-ASP.NET-Applications-with-debug_3D001D20_true_1D20_-enabled.aspx).

### Solution

1. Disable security trimming (if not needed or during development). Enable it again when deploying the site.
    * WebForms View Engine

            <%: Html.Kendo().Menu()
                    .SecurityTrimming(false)
            %>
    * Razor

            @(Html.Kendo().Menu()
                  .SecurityTrimming(false)
            )
2. Disable debug mode. Set the `debug` attribute of the `compilation` element in web.config to `false`:

    <compilation debug="false">

## Widget's value is not bound to the Model's property

If widget's name is different than the Model's property then the ModelBinder will not be able to update the model.

### Solution

Verify that the name of the widget is the same as the Model's property you want to update.

> **Important:** If strongly-typed widget is used do not set Name manually, because name is generated automatically.

## Loading icon of AutoComplete/ComboBox/DropDownList/MultiSelect continues spinning

The most common cause of this issue is an [internal server error](http://www.checkupdown.com/status/E500.html).
### Solution

Verify that GET requests are allowed:

        public JsonResult GetCascadeCategories()
        {
            var northwind = new NorthwindDataContext();

            return Json(northwind.Categories, **JsonRequestBehavior.AllowGet**);
        }

or change HTTP verb of the DataSource:

    * WebForms View Engine

            <%: Html.Kendo().ComboBox()
                    .Name("ComboBox")
                    .DataSource(read => {
                        read.Action("GetCascadeCategories", "ComboBox").Type(HttpVerbs.Post);
                    })
            %>
    * Razor

            @(Html.Kendo().ComboBox()
                  .Name("ComboBox")
                  .DataSource(read => {
                      read.Action("GetCascadeCategories", "ComboBox").Type(HttpVerbs.Post);
                  })
            )
