getting-started/web/window/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
meta_title: Overview of Kendo UI Window widget
meta_description: Learn how to get started with Kendo UI Window widget, load content via Ajax, access an existing window.
slug: gs-web-window-overview
relatedDocs: api-web-window
tags: getting-started,web
publish: true
---

# Window Overview

A **Window** displays content in a modal or non-modal HTML window. By default, a
**Window** can be moved, resized, and closed. Its content can also be defined with either as
static HTML or loaded dynamically via AJAX.

A **Window** can be initialized from virtually any DOM element. During initialization, the
targeted content will automatically be wrapped in the div element of the **Window**.


## Getting Started

### Create a simple HTML element with the Window content

    <div id="window">
        Content of the Window
    </div>

### Initialize the Window using a selector

    $(document).ready(function() {
        $("#window").kendoWindow();
    });

When a **Window** is initialized, it will automatically be displayed open near the location of the
DOM element that was used to initialize the content.

### HTML structure and DOM Placement

By default, the Window is created as a child of the `&lt;body&gt;` element. This behavior should be taken into account with regard to CSS selectors or element discovery via Javascript.
The behavior is configurable via the [`appendTo` setting](/kendo-ui/api/web/window#configuration-appendTo).

#### Before initialization

	<body>
		<div id="container1">
			<div id="window">
				Content of the Window
			</div>
			...
		</div>
		<div id="container2">
			...
		</div>
	</body>

#### After initialization

	<body>
		<div id="container1">
			...
		</div>
		<div id="container2">
			...
		</div>
		<div class="k-widget k-window">
			<div class="k-window-titlebar">...</div>
			<div id="window" class="k-window-content">
				Content of the Window
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>

## Configuring Window Behaviors

A **Window** provides many configuration options that can be easily set during initialization.
Among the properties that can be controlled:


*   Minimum height/width
*   Available user actions (close/refresh/maximize/minimize/pin) and ability to define custom ones
*   Title
*   Draggable and resizable behaviors
*	Initial position in pixels, with regard to the page top-left corner
*	Pinned state - whether the Window moves together with the rest of the page content during scrolling

### Create a modal Window with all user actions enabled and a predefined position

    $("#window").kendoWindow({
        actions: ["Custom", "Pin", "Refresh", "Maximize", "Minimize", "Close"],
        draggable: false,
        height: "300px",
        modal: true,
		pinned: false,
		position: {
			top: 100,
			left: 100
		},
        resizable: false,
        title: "Modal Window",
        width: "500px"
    });

The order of the values in the actions array determines the order in which the action buttons will be rendered
in the title of a **Window**. The maximize action serves both as a button for expanding a
**Window** to fill the screen and as a button to restore a **Window** to its previous
size. The minimize action collapses a **Window** to its title.

If a non-recognized action name is supplied, it is treated as a custom action and the following CSS classes are rendered for it - **k-icon** and **k-i-actionname** (all letters lowercase).
No click event handler is attached automatically either. The Kendo stylesheets have a supplied icon for actions with the name "custom", but any name can be used.
Click events can be captured and handled in a standard way:

### Custom actions

      $("#window").kendoWindow({
          actions: ["Custom", "Minimize", "Maximize", "Close"],
          title: "Window Title"
      }).data("kendoWindow").wrapper.find(".k-i-custom").click(function(e) {
          alert("Custom action button clicked");
          e.preventDefault();
      });

    <h3>Positioning and Opening a Window</h3>
    <p>
     In some scenarios, it is preferable to center a <strong>Window</strong> rather than open it near the HTML
     element used to define the content. It is also common to open a <strong>Window</strong> as the result of the
     action of a user rather than on the load event of a page. The <strong>Window</strong> API provides methods for
     handling these scenarios.
    </p>

### Centering a Window and opening on button click

    <div id="window">
        Content of the Window
    </div>
    <button id="openButton">Open Window</button>

### Initialize Window, center, and configure button click action

    $(document).ready(function(){
        var win = $("#window").kendoWindow({
            height: "200px",
            title: "Centered Window",
            visible: false,
            width: "200px"
        }).data("kendoWindow");
    });

    $("#openButton").click(function(){
        var win = $("#window").data("kendoWindow");
        win.center();
        win.open();
    });

## Loading Window content via AJAX

A **Window** provides built-in support for asynchronously loading content from a URL. This URL
should return an **HTML fragment** that can be loaded in a Window content area.

> Loading full pages (with a DOCTYPE, `html`, `head` and `body` tags) with AJAX is incorrect and will cause all sorts of undesired side effects, including broken DOM tree, deleted widgets instances and Javascript errors.

### Load Window content asynchronously

    <div id="window"></div>

### Initialize window and configure content loading

    $(document).ready(function(){
        $("#window").kendoWindow({
            content: "html-content-snippet.html",
            title: "Async Window Content"
        });
    });

## Using iframes

The Window creates an `iframe` for its content if the content URL contains a protocol, i.e. it is assumed that in this case the nested page resides on another domain.
If the URL does not contain s protocol, the assumption is that it is a local URL that will load a partial view (not a full page), so an iframe is not created.
This behavior can be controlled explicitly via the widget configuration.

> Loading HTML fragments (partial content) inside an iframe is incorrect. Iframe pages should include a DOCTYPE, `html`, `head` and `body` tags, just like a standard web page does.

### Accessing the `window` and `document` objects inside the `iframe`

In order to access content and script objects inside the Kendo UI Window `iframe`, the nested page must belong to the **same domain** as the main page.

    <div id="window"></div>

    <script>
    
    var windowElement = $("#window").kendoWindow({
        iframe: true,
        content: "http://docs.telerik.com/kendo-ui/"
    });

    var iframeDomElement = windowElement.children("iframe")[0];
    var iframeWindowObject = iframeDomElement.contentWindow;
    var iframeDocumentObject = iframeDomElement.contentDocument;
    // which is equivalent to
    // var iframeDocumentObject = iframeWindowObject.document;
    var iframejQuery = iframeWindowObject.$; // if jQuery is registered inside the iframe page, of course
    
    </script>

## Accessing an Existing Window

You can reference an existing **Window** instance via
[jQuery.data()](http://api.jquery.com/jQuery.data/). Once a reference has been established, you can
use the API to control its behavior.

### Accessing an existing Window instance

    var win = $("#window").data("kendoWindow");

### Accessing an existing Window instance from its non-iframe content

An easy way to obtain reference to a Kendo UI Window instance from within its non-iframe content is to use DOM traversal.

    var win = elementInsideWindow.closest(".k-window-content").data("kendoWindow");

`elementInsideWindow` is a jQuery object containing and element inside the Window content area.

### Accessing an existing Window instance from within an iframe

If the Window is displaying a page in an iframe and the page needs to access the widget, this can be achieved by using `window.parent` from within the iframe.

    var win = window.parent.$("#window").data("kendoWindow");

> Please note that iframe-parent access is possible only if the iframe and the parent page belong to the same domain.
	
## Using Kendo UI Window with a form

By default, the Window widget is moved in the DOM and placed as a child of the `body` element after initialization. This facilitates positioning the widget on top of everything else,
but may lead to undesired side effects if the Window is created from an element inside a form, as the moved form fields will not be submitted. There are two ways to avoid this:

1. the whole form including its opening and closing tags should be inside the element, from which the Window is created;
1. if the Window is created from an element inside the form, then the [appendTo](/kendo-ui/api/web/window#configuration-appendTo) property should be used, so that the Window is not moved outside the form;

If form data is validated on the server, we recommend submitting via AJAX, so that the Window remains visible and any validation messages are displayed seamlessly.

The above remarks only apply to the case when the Window is *not* using an `iframe`.

## Destroying a Kendo UI Window

Unlike most other widgets, the Kendo UI Window is **completely removed from the DOM** when [destroyed](/kendo-ui/getting-started/widgets#destroying-kendo-ui-widgets).
This means that the element, from which it was initialized, no longer exists on the page, so a new Window instance can be created only from another element.

## Printing the Window contents

The CSS code below can be used to hide all the page content and leave only the Window content visible during printing.
The code assumes that only one Window instance exists on the page and it is a child of the `body`, i.e. the `appendTo` option is **not** used.
If there are multiple Window instances on the page and only one should be printed, then the `.k-window` class below should be replaced by a custom CSS class, which is applied to the Window wrapper element manually.

    @media print
    {
        body > *
        {
            display: none !important;
        }
        
        body > .k-window
        {
            display: block !important;
            position: relative !important;
            top: auto !important;
            left: auto !important;
            width: auto !important;
            height: auto !important;
            border-width: 0;
            box-shadow: none !important;
        }
        
        .k-window .k-window-titlebar
        {
            display: none;
        }
    }

Commit message:

Improve Window iframe and ajax docs 2

getting-started/web/window/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
meta_title: Overview of Kendo UI Window widget
meta_description: Learn how to get started with Kendo UI Window widget, load content via Ajax, access an existing window.
slug: gs-web-window-overview
relatedDocs: api-web-window
tags: getting-started,web
publish: true
---

# Window Overview

A **Window** displays content in a modal or non-modal HTML window. By default, a
**Window** can be moved, resized, and closed. Its content can also be defined with either as
static HTML or loaded dynamically via AJAX.

A **Window** can be initialized from virtually any DOM element. During initialization, the
targeted content will automatically be wrapped in the div element of the **Window**.


## Getting Started

### Create a simple HTML element with the Window content

    <div id="window">
        Content of the Window
    </div>

### Initialize the Window using a selector

    $(document).ready(function() {
        $("#window").kendoWindow();
    });

When a **Window** is initialized, it will automatically be displayed open near the location of the
DOM element that was used to initialize the content.

### HTML structure and DOM Placement

By default, the Window is created as a child of the `&lt;body&gt;` element. This behavior should be taken into account with regard to CSS selectors or element discovery via Javascript.
The behavior is configurable via the [`appendTo` setting](/kendo-ui/api/web/window#configuration-appendTo).

#### Before initialization

	<body>
		<div id="container1">
			<div id="window">
				Content of the Window
			</div>
			...
		</div>
		<div id="container2">
			...
		</div>
	</body>

#### After initialization

	<body>
		<div id="container1">
			...
		</div>
		<div id="container2">
			...
		</div>
		<div class="k-widget k-window">
			<div class="k-window-titlebar">...</div>
			<div id="window" class="k-window-content">
				Content of the Window
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>

## Configuring Window Behaviors

A **Window** provides many configuration options that can be easily set during initialization.
Among the properties that can be controlled:


*   Minimum height/width
*   Available user actions (close/refresh/maximize/minimize/pin) and ability to define custom ones
*   Title
*   Draggable and resizable behaviors
*	Initial position in pixels, with regard to the page top-left corner
*	Pinned state - whether the Window moves together with the rest of the page content during scrolling

### Create a modal Window with all user actions enabled and a predefined position

    $("#window").kendoWindow({
        actions: ["Custom", "Pin", "Refresh", "Maximize", "Minimize", "Close"],
        draggable: false,
        height: "300px",
        modal: true,
		pinned: false,
		position: {
			top: 100,
			left: 100
		},
        resizable: false,
        title: "Modal Window",
        width: "500px"
    });

The order of the values in the actions array determines the order in which the action buttons will be rendered
in the title of a **Window**. The maximize action serves both as a button for expanding a
**Window** to fill the screen and as a button to restore a **Window** to its previous
size. The minimize action collapses a **Window** to its title.

If a non-recognized action name is supplied, it is treated as a custom action and the following CSS classes are rendered for it - **k-icon** and **k-i-actionname** (all letters lowercase).
No click event handler is attached automatically either. The Kendo stylesheets have a supplied icon for actions with the name "custom", but any name can be used.
Click events can be captured and handled in a standard way:

### Custom actions

      $("#window").kendoWindow({
          actions: ["Custom", "Minimize", "Maximize", "Close"],
          title: "Window Title"
      }).data("kendoWindow").wrapper.find(".k-i-custom").click(function(e) {
          alert("Custom action button clicked");
          e.preventDefault();
      });

    <h3>Positioning and Opening a Window</h3>
    <p>
     In some scenarios, it is preferable to center a <strong>Window</strong> rather than open it near the HTML
     element used to define the content. It is also common to open a <strong>Window</strong> as the result of the
     action of a user rather than on the load event of a page. The <strong>Window</strong> API provides methods for
     handling these scenarios.
    </p>

### Centering a Window and opening on button click

    <div id="window">
        Content of the Window
    </div>
    <button id="openButton">Open Window</button>

### Initialize Window, center, and configure button click action

    $(document).ready(function(){
        var win = $("#window").kendoWindow({
            height: "200px",
            title: "Centered Window",
            visible: false,
            width: "200px"
        }).data("kendoWindow");
    });

    $("#openButton").click(function(){
        var win = $("#window").data("kendoWindow");
        win.center();
        win.open();
    });

## Loading Window content via AJAX

A **Window** provides built-in support for asynchronously loading content from a URL. This URL
should return an **HTML fragment** that can be loaded in a Window content area.

> Loading full pages (i.e. ones with a DOCTYPE, `html`, `head` and `body` tags) inside the Window with AJAX is incorrect and will cause
all sorts of undesired side effects, including a broken DOM tree, deleted widget instances and Javascript errors.

### Load Window content asynchronously

    <div id="window"></div>

### Initialize window and configure content loading

    $(document).ready(function(){
        $("#window").kendoWindow({
            content: "html-content-snippet.html",
            title: "Async Window Content"
        });
    });

## Using iframes

The Window creates an `iframe` for its content if the content URL contains a protocol, i.e. it is assumed that in this case the nested page resides on another domain.
If the URL does not contain s protocol, the assumption is that it is a local URL that will load a partial view (not a full page), so an iframe is not created.
This behavior can be controlled explicitly via the widget configuration.

> Loading HTML fragments (partial content) inside an iframe is incorrect. Iframe pages should include a DOCTYPE, `html`, `head` and `body` tags, just like a standard web page does.

### Accessing the `window` and `document` objects inside the `iframe`

In order to access content and script objects inside the Kendo UI Window `iframe`, the nested page must belong to the **same domain** as the main page.

    <div id="window"></div>

    <script>
    
    var windowElement = $("#window").kendoWindow({
        iframe: true,
        content: "http://docs.telerik.com/kendo-ui/"
    });

    var iframeDomElement = windowElement.children("iframe")[0];
    var iframeWindowObject = iframeDomElement.contentWindow;
    var iframeDocumentObject = iframeDomElement.contentDocument;
    // which is equivalent to
    // var iframeDocumentObject = iframeWindowObject.document;
    var iframejQuery = iframeWindowObject.$; // if jQuery is registered inside the iframe page, of course
    
    </script>

## Accessing an Existing Window

You can reference an existing **Window** instance via
[jQuery.data()](http://api.jquery.com/jQuery.data/). Once a reference has been established, you can
use the API to control its behavior.

### Accessing an existing Window instance

    var win = $("#window").data("kendoWindow");

### Accessing an existing Window instance from its non-iframe content

An easy way to obtain reference to a Kendo UI Window instance from within its non-iframe content is to use DOM traversal.

    var win = elementInsideWindow.closest(".k-window-content").data("kendoWindow");

`elementInsideWindow` is a jQuery object containing and element inside the Window content area.

### Accessing an existing Window instance from within an iframe

If the Window is displaying a page in an iframe and the page needs to access the widget, this can be achieved by using `window.parent` from within the iframe.

    var win = window.parent.$("#window").data("kendoWindow");

> Please note that iframe-parent access is possible only if the iframe and the parent page belong to the same domain.
	
## Using Kendo UI Window with a form

By default, the Window widget is moved in the DOM and placed as a child of the `body` element after initialization. This facilitates positioning the widget on top of everything else,
but may lead to undesired side effects if the Window is created from an element inside a form, as the moved form fields will not be submitted. There are two ways to avoid this:

1. the whole form including its opening and closing tags should be inside the element, from which the Window is created;
1. if the Window is created from an element inside the form, then the [appendTo](/kendo-ui/api/web/window#configuration-appendTo) property should be used, so that the Window is not moved outside the form;

If form data is validated on the server, we recommend submitting via AJAX, so that the Window remains visible and any validation messages are displayed seamlessly.

The above remarks only apply to the case when the Window is *not* using an `iframe`.

## Destroying a Kendo UI Window

Unlike most other widgets, the Kendo UI Window is **completely removed from the DOM** when [destroyed](/kendo-ui/getting-started/widgets#destroying-kendo-ui-widgets).
This means that the element, from which it was initialized, no longer exists on the page, so a new Window instance can be created only from another element.

## Printing the Window contents

The CSS code below can be used to hide all the page content and leave only the Window content visible during printing.
The code assumes that only one Window instance exists on the page and it is a child of the `body`, i.e. the `appendTo` option is **not** used.
If there are multiple Window instances on the page and only one should be printed, then the `.k-window` class below should be replaced by a custom CSS class, which is applied to the Window wrapper element manually.

    @media print
    {
        body > *
        {
            display: none !important;
        }
        
        body > .k-window
        {
            display: block !important;
            position: relative !important;
            top: auto !important;
            left: auto !important;
            width: auto !important;
            height: auto !important;
            border-width: 0;
            box-shadow: none !important;
        }
        
        .k-window .k-window-titlebar
        {
            display: none;
        }
    }
