getting-started/web/maskedtextbox/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
meta_title: MaskedTextBox UI widget - documentation overview
meta_description: How to create MaskedTextBox widget and deal with proper configuration of its behaviors.
slug: gs-web-maskedtextbox-overview
relatedDocs: api-web-maskedtextbox
tags: getting-started,web
publish: true
---

# MaskedTextBox Overview

The MaskedTextBox widget allows controlled text input based on a specific format.
It can be defined using the [mask](/kendo-ui/api/web/maskedtextbox#configuration-mask) option of the widget. Every mask can contain mask rules and
mask literals. The mask literals will be automatically entered for the user and they cannot be removed.
Widget also has predefined rules specifying:

- required/optional digit input
- required/optional letter input
- required/optional character input (allow any character)

For a complete overview of the MaskedTextBox's methods and configuration options, [review the MaskedTextBox API Reference](/kendo-ui/api/web/maskedtextbox).

## Getting Started

### Creating a MaskedTextBox from existing INPUT element

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />

### MaskedTextBox initialization

    $(document).ready(function(){
        $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
            mask: "000000"
        });
    });

When a **MaskedTextBox** is initialized, it will decorate the input element with a "k-textbox" CSS class.

> Always define a *mask* option when initializing the MaskedTextBox widget. The default *mask* is an empty string, which does not allow typing.

### Configuring MaskedTextBox behaviors

The **MaskedTextBox** provides configuration options that can be
easily set during initialization. Among the properties that can be
controlled:

*   Value of the widget
*   Mask value
*   Define custom mask rules
*   Prompt char
*   Culture name

For a complete overview of the MaskedTextBox's methods and configuration options, [review the MaskedTextBox API Reference](/kendo-ui/api/web/maskedtextbox).

### Predefined Mask Rules

The following mask rules are available:

- **0** - Digit. Accepts any digit between 0 and 9.
- **9** - Digit or space. Accepts any digit between 0 and 9, plus space.
- **#** - Digit or space. Like **9** rule, but allows also (+) and (-) sings.
- **L** - Letter. Restricts input to letters a-z and A-Z. This rule is equivalent to [a-zA-Z] in regular expressions.
- **?** - Letter or space. Restricts input to letters a-z and A-Z. This rule is equivalent to [a-zA-Z] in regular expressions.
- **&** - Character. Accepts any character. The rule is equivalent to *\S* in regular expressions.
- **C** - Character or space. Accepts any character. The rule is equivalent to *.* in regular expressions.
- **A** - Alphanumeric. Accepts letters and digits only.
- **a** - Alphanumeric or space. Accepts letters, digits and space only.

> Any mask rule can be escaped using the "\" character. Escaped rule is turned into a literal.

### Globalized mask literals

The following mask literals will be globalized based on the current culture:

- **.** - Decimal placeholder. The decimal separator will be get from the current culture used by Kendo.
- **,** - Thousands placeholder. The display character will be get from the current culture used by Kendo.
- **$** - Currency symbol. The display character will be get from the current culture used by Kendo.

> Any of the aforementioned literals can be escaped using the "\" character.

### Define a custom mask rule

The **MaskedTextBox** widget provides the ability to define custom mask rules during initialization.
To accomplish this task define a rule in the [rules](/kendo-ui/api/web/maskedtextbox#configuration-rules)
option. Widget supports rules defined as **RegExp** or **Function**:

    $(document).ready(function(){
        $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
            mask: "~^",
            rules: {
                "~": /[+-]/,
                "^": function (char) {
                    return char === "^"; //allow ony "^" symbol
                }
            }
        });
    });

> Any of the predefined rules can be overriden through the [rules](/kendo-ui/api/web/maskedtextbox#configuration-rules) option.


## Accessing an Existing MaskedTextBox

You can reference an existing **MaskedTextBox** instance via
[jQuery.data()](http://api.jquery.com/jQuery.data/).
Once a reference has been established, you can use the API to control
its behavior.

### Accessing an existing MaskedTextBox instance

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");

Commit message:

Update documentation showing that empty mask value allows any input

getting-started/web/maskedtextbox/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
meta_title: MaskedTextBox UI widget - documentation overview
meta_description: How to create MaskedTextBox widget and deal with proper configuration of its behaviors.
slug: gs-web-maskedtextbox-overview
relatedDocs: api-web-maskedtextbox
tags: getting-started,web
publish: true
---

# MaskedTextBox Overview

The MaskedTextBox widget allows controlled text input based on a specific format.
It can be defined using the [mask](/kendo-ui/api/web/maskedtextbox#configuration-mask) option of the widget. Every mask can contain mask rules and
mask literals. The mask literals will be automatically entered for the user and they cannot be removed.
Widget also has predefined rules specifying:

- required/optional digit input
- required/optional letter input
- required/optional character input (allow any character)

For a complete overview of the MaskedTextBox's methods and configuration options, [review the MaskedTextBox API Reference](/kendo-ui/api/web/maskedtextbox).

## Getting Started

### Creating a MaskedTextBox from existing INPUT element

    <input id="maskedtextbox" />

### MaskedTextBox initialization

    $(document).ready(function(){
        $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
            mask: "000000"
        });
    });

When a **MaskedTextBox** is initialized, it will decorate the input element with a "k-textbox" CSS class.

> The default *mask* is an empty string, which allows any input. If you need to restrict user input, define a mask value.

### Configuring MaskedTextBox behaviors

The **MaskedTextBox** provides configuration options that can be
easily set during initialization. Among the properties that can be
controlled:

*   Value of the widget
*   Mask value
*   Define custom mask rules
*   Prompt char
*   Culture name

For a complete overview of the MaskedTextBox's methods and configuration options, [review the MaskedTextBox API Reference](/kendo-ui/api/web/maskedtextbox).

### Predefined Mask Rules

The following mask rules are available:

- **0** - Digit. Accepts any digit between 0 and 9.
- **9** - Digit or space. Accepts any digit between 0 and 9, plus space.
- **#** - Digit or space. Like **9** rule, but allows also (+) and (-) sings.
- **L** - Letter. Restricts input to letters a-z and A-Z. This rule is equivalent to [a-zA-Z] in regular expressions.
- **?** - Letter or space. Restricts input to letters a-z and A-Z. This rule is equivalent to [a-zA-Z] in regular expressions.
- **&** - Character. Accepts any character. The rule is equivalent to *\S* in regular expressions.
- **C** - Character or space. Accepts any character. The rule is equivalent to *.* in regular expressions.
- **A** - Alphanumeric. Accepts letters and digits only.
- **a** - Alphanumeric or space. Accepts letters, digits and space only.

> Any mask rule can be escaped using the "\" character. Escaped rule is turned into a literal.

### Globalized mask literals

The following mask literals will be globalized based on the current culture:

- **.** - Decimal placeholder. The decimal separator will be get from the current culture used by Kendo.
- **,** - Thousands placeholder. The display character will be get from the current culture used by Kendo.
- **$** - Currency symbol. The display character will be get from the current culture used by Kendo.

> Any of the aforementioned literals can be escaped using the "\" character.

### Define a custom mask rule

The **MaskedTextBox** widget provides the ability to define custom mask rules during initialization.
To accomplish this task define a rule in the [rules](/kendo-ui/api/web/maskedtextbox#configuration-rules)
option. Widget supports rules defined as **RegExp** or **Function**:

    $(document).ready(function(){
        $("#maskedtextbox").kendoMaskedTextBox({
            mask: "~^",
            rules: {
                "~": /[+-]/,
                "^": function (char) {
                    return char === "^"; //allow ony "^" symbol
                }
            }
        });
    });

> Any of the predefined rules can be overriden through the [rules](/kendo-ui/api/web/maskedtextbox#configuration-rules) option.


## Accessing an Existing MaskedTextBox

You can reference an existing **MaskedTextBox** instance via
[jQuery.data()](http://api.jquery.com/jQuery.data/).
Once a reference has been established, you can use the API to control
its behavior.

### Accessing an existing MaskedTextBox instance

    var maskedtextbox = $("#maskedtextbox").data("kendoMaskedTextBox");
