api/javascript/dataviz/drawing/text.md, before:

---
title: Text
page_title: API reference for methods and fields of Kendo UI DataViz Drawing Text
---

# kendo.dataviz.drawing.Text : kendo.dataviz.drawing.Element
Draws a single line of text at the given position.

#### Example - creating a text
    <div id="surface"></div>
    <script>
        var d = kendo.dataviz.drawing;
        var geo = kendo.dataviz.geometry;

        var position = new geo.Point(10, 10);
        var text = new d.Text("Foo", position);

        var surface = d.Surface.create($("#surface"));
        surface.draw(text);
    </script>

## Constructor Parameters

### content `String`
The content of the text. Special characters are not supported.

### options `Object`
The configuration options.

## Configuration

### fill `kendo.dataviz.drawing.FillOptions`
The fill options of the text.

### stroke `kendo.dataviz.drawing.StrokeOptions`
The stroke options of the text.

### transform `kendo.dataviz.geometry.Transformation`
The transformation to apply to this element.
Inherited from [Element.transform](element#configuration-transform)

### visible `Boolean`
A flag, indicating if the element is visible.
Inherited from [Element.visible](element#configuration-visible)

## Methods

### bbox
Returns the bounding box of the element with transformations applied.
Inherited from [Element.bbox](element#methods-bbox)

#### Returns
`kendo.dataviz.geometry.Rect` The bounding box of the element with transformations applied.


### content
Gets or sets the text content.

#### Example - change content
    <div id="surface"></div>
    <script>
        var d = kendo.dataviz.drawing;
        var geo = kendo.dataviz.geometry;

        var position = new geo.Point(10, 10);
        var text = new d.Text("", position);

        var surface = d.Surface.create($("#surface"));
        surface.draw(text);

        setInterval(function() {
            text.content(kendo.toString(new Date(), "T"));
        }, 1000);
    </script>

#### Parameters

##### value `String`
The new text content to set.

#### Returns
`String` The current content of the text.


### fill
Sets the text [fill](#configuration-fill).

#### Parameters

##### color `String`
The [fill color](fill-options#fields-color) to set.

##### opacity `Number` *optional*
The [fill opacity](fill-options#fields-opacity) to set.

#### Returns
`kendo.dataviz.drawing.Text` The current instance to allow chaining.


### position
Gets or sets the position of the text upper left corner.

#### Example - change position
    <div id="surface"></div>
    <script>
        var d = kendo.dataviz.drawing;
        var geo = kendo.dataviz.geometry;

        var position = new geo.Point(10, 10);
        var text = new d.Text("Foo", position);

        var surface = d.Surface.create($("#surface"));
        surface.draw(text);

        setTimeout(function() {
            text.position([20, 20]);
        }, 1000);
    </script>

#### Parameters

##### value `kendo.dataviz.geometry.Point`
The new position of the text upper left corner.

#### Returns
`kendo.dataviz.geometry.Point` The current position of the text upper left corner.


### stroke
Sets the text [stroke](#configuration-stroke).

#### Parameters

##### color `String`
The [stroke color](stroke-options#fields-color) to set.

##### width `Number` *optional*
The [stroke width](stroke-options#fields-width) to set.

##### opacity `Number` *optional*
The [stroke opacity](stroke-options#fields-opacity) to set.

#### Returns
`kendo.dataviz.drawing.Text` The current instance to allow chaining.


### transform
Gets or sets the transformation of the element.
Inherited from [Element.transform](element#methods-transform)

#### Parameters

##### transform `kendo.dataviz.geometry.Transformation`
The transformation to apply to the element.

#### Returns
`kendo.dataviz.geometry.Transformation` The current transformation on the element.


### visible
Gets or sets the visibility of the element.
Inherited from [Element.visible](element#methods-visible)

#### Parameters

##### visible `Boolean`
A flag indicating if the element should be visible.

#### Returns
`Boolean` true if the element is visible; false otherwise.

Commit message:

Update wrong angle definition. Add missing Text parameter.

api/javascript/dataviz/drawing/text.md, after:

---
title: Text
page_title: API reference for methods and fields of Kendo UI DataViz Drawing Text
---

# kendo.dataviz.drawing.Text : kendo.dataviz.drawing.Element
Draws a single line of text at the given position.

#### Example - creating a text
    <div id="surface"></div>
    <script>
        var d = kendo.dataviz.drawing;
        var geo = kendo.dataviz.geometry;

        var position = new geo.Point(10, 10);
        var text = new d.Text("Foo", position);

        var surface = d.Surface.create($("#surface"));
        surface.draw(text);
    </script>

## Constructor Parameters

### content `String`
The content of the text. Special characters are not supported.

### position `kendo.dataviz.geometry.Point`
The position of the text upper left corner.

### options `Object`
The configuration options.

## Configuration

### fill `kendo.dataviz.drawing.FillOptions`
The fill options of the text.

### stroke `kendo.dataviz.drawing.StrokeOptions`
The stroke options of the text.

### transform `kendo.dataviz.geometry.Transformation`
The transformation to apply to this element.
Inherited from [Element.transform](element#configuration-transform)

### visible `Boolean`
A flag, indicating if the element is visible.
Inherited from [Element.visible](element#configuration-visible)

## Methods

### bbox
Returns the bounding box of the element with transformations applied.
Inherited from [Element.bbox](element#methods-bbox)

#### Returns
`kendo.dataviz.geometry.Rect` The bounding box of the element with transformations applied.


### content
Gets or sets the text content.

#### Example - change content
    <div id="surface"></div>
    <script>
        var d = kendo.dataviz.drawing;
        var geo = kendo.dataviz.geometry;

        var position = new geo.Point(10, 10);
        var text = new d.Text("", position);

        var surface = d.Surface.create($("#surface"));
        surface.draw(text);

        setInterval(function() {
            text.content(kendo.toString(new Date(), "T"));
        }, 1000);
    </script>

#### Parameters

##### value `String`
The new text content to set.

#### Returns
`String` The current content of the text.


### fill
Sets the text [fill](#configuration-fill).

#### Parameters

##### color `String`
The [fill color](fill-options#fields-color) to set.

##### opacity `Number` *optional*
The [fill opacity](fill-options#fields-opacity) to set.

#### Returns
`kendo.dataviz.drawing.Text` The current instance to allow chaining.


### position
Gets or sets the position of the text upper left corner.

#### Example - change position
    <div id="surface"></div>
    <script>
        var d = kendo.dataviz.drawing;
        var geo = kendo.dataviz.geometry;

        var position = new geo.Point(10, 10);
        var text = new d.Text("Foo", position);

        var surface = d.Surface.create($("#surface"));
        surface.draw(text);

        setTimeout(function() {
            text.position([20, 20]);
        }, 1000);
    </script>

#### Parameters

##### value `kendo.dataviz.geometry.Point`
The new position of the text upper left corner.

#### Returns
`kendo.dataviz.geometry.Point` The current position of the text upper left corner.


### stroke
Sets the text [stroke](#configuration-stroke).

#### Parameters

##### color `String`
The [stroke color](stroke-options#fields-color) to set.

##### width `Number` *optional*
The [stroke width](stroke-options#fields-width) to set.

##### opacity `Number` *optional*
The [stroke opacity](stroke-options#fields-opacity) to set.

#### Returns
`kendo.dataviz.drawing.Text` The current instance to allow chaining.


### transform
Gets or sets the transformation of the element.
Inherited from [Element.transform](element#methods-transform)

#### Parameters

##### transform `kendo.dataviz.geometry.Transformation`
The transformation to apply to the element.

#### Returns
`kendo.dataviz.geometry.Transformation` The current transformation on the element.


### visible
Gets or sets the visibility of the element.
Inherited from [Element.visible](element#methods-visible)

#### Parameters

##### visible `Boolean`
A flag indicating if the element should be visible.

#### Returns
`Boolean` true if the element is visible; false otherwise.
