getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
slug: mvc-grid-troubleshooting
publish: true
---

# Grid Troubleshooting

## The grid performs HTTP GET requests instead of POST

By default Kendo Grid for ASP.NET MVC should make POST requests when configured for [ajax binding](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/ajax-binding).
This is implemented by a custom DataSource transport and schema. Those are defined in the **kendo.aspnetmvc.min.js**. Make sure that this file is included **after** the other
Kendo JavaScript files. More info can be found in the [introduction help topic](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/introduction).

### Solution: Correct Order Of JavaScript Files
    <script src="/Scripts/kendo.web.min.js"></script> <-- or kendo.all.min.js -->
    <script src="/Scripts/kendo.aspnetmvc.min.js"></script>

## The ajax bound grid does not populate

There are various reasons which may cause this. Follow the troubleshooting instructions.

### Ajax Binding Troubleshooting

1. Use your browser's developer console to check for any JavaScript errors. In most browsers pressing **F12** will pop up the developer console. Address all JavaScript errors.
More info can be found in the [troubleshooting help topic](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnetmvc/troubleshooting).
2. Check the "Network" (or "Net" in Firebug) tab of the browser developer console. Look for a failed HTTP request for the action method configured via the `DataSource` grid setting.
    - HTTP status code [401](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes#401) indicates that authentication is required and has failed or not yet been provided.
    - HTTP status code [403](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes#403) indicates that request is not authorized. Perhaps the current user does not have
    the required permissions.
    - HTTP status code [404](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes#404) indicates that requested URL cannot be found.
    Check if the controller and action names are spelled correctly.
    - HTTP status code [500](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes#500) indicates that a server error occurred while process the request.
    Check what the server response is. In most cases it will contain the full .NET stacktrace. If the reason for the exception is not clear put a break-point
    in the action method and break with the debugger. Also check the [well known exceptions](#well-known-exceptions)
3. Check if you are using the `ToDataSourceResult` extension method. That method returns the data in the JSON format expected by Kendo Grid for ASP.NET MVC. Check the
[ajax binding](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/ajax-binding) help topic for further instructions.

## Well Known Exceptions

### A circular reference was detected while serializing an object of type

The reason for this error is that the [JavaScriptSerializer](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.script.serialization.javascriptserializer.aspx) class used by
the [Json](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.mvc.controller.json.aspx) method cannot serialize object graphs which contain circular references (refer to each other).
The best solution is to use View Model objects and avoid the serializing the properties which create the circular reference.
Check the ["How do I avoid circular reference exceptions"](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/faq#how-do-i-avoid-circular-reference-exceptions?) FAQ section for further information.

### Error during serialization or deserialization using the JSON JavaScriptSerializer

This exception is raised when the length of the data serialized as JSON exceeds the default [MaxJsonLength](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.script.serialization.javascriptserializer.maxjsonlength.aspx).
There are a few possible solutions:

1. Enable paging by calling the `Pageable` method
2. [Use a View Model](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/faq#how-do-i-convert-my-models-to-view-model-objects?) to serialize only the required properties of your model.
3. Return a custom action result

        public ActionResult Read([DataSourceRequest] DataSourceRequest request)
        {
            var data = GetData();
            var serializer = new JavaScriptSerializer();
            var result = new ContentResult();
            serializer.MaxJsonLength = Int32.MaxValue; // Whatever max length you want here
            result.Content = serializer.Serialize(data.ToDataSourceResult(request));
            result.ContentType = "application/json";
            return result;
        }

### This request has been blocked because sensitive information could be disclosed to third party web sites when this is used in a GET request

This exception would occur if **kendo.aspnetmvc.min.js** is not included or is included **before** kendo.web.min.js. The other reason is that the developer has explicitly
specified that the DataSource should make HTTP GET requests via the `Type` setting but didn't tell the `Json` method that HTTP GET requests are allowed.

#### Solution: Allow GET Requests
    // View

    // omitted for brevity
    .DataSource(dataSource => dataSource.Ajax()
        .Read(read => read.Action("Read", "Home").Type(HttpVerbs.Get)) // tell the DataSource to make GET requests
    // omitted for brevity

    // Controller
    public ActionResult Read([DataSourceRequest] DataSourceRequest request)
    {
        var data = GetData();

        return Json(result.ToDataSourceResult(request), JsonRequestBehavior.AllowGet);
    }

## The grid does not display numbers and dates in the right format for my culture

By default Kendo UI Grid formats dates and numbers using the **en-US** culture. To change the culture include the JavaScript for your culture and then call `kendo.culture`.

### Include Culture Specific Kendo JavaScript
    <script src="/Scripts/cultures/kendo.culture.de-DE.js"></script>
    <script>
        kendo.culture("de-DE");
    </script>

### Include JavaScript For The Current Culture (WebForms)
    <%
        var culture = System.Threading.Thread.CurrentThread.CurrentCulture.ToString();
    %>
    <script src="<%= Url.Content("~/Scripts/cultures/kendo.culture." + culture + ".min.js") %>"></script>
    <script>
        kendo.culture("<%= culture %>");
    </script>

### Include JavaScript For The Current Culture (Razor)
    @{
        var culture = System.Threading.Thread.CurrentThread.CurrentCulture.ToString();
    }
    <script src="@Url.Content("~/Scripts/cultures/kendo.culture." + culture + ".min.js")"></script>
    <script>
        kendo.culture("@culture");
    </script>

## The grid fails to update dates and numbers when the current culture is not en-US

Make sure the JavaScript file for that culture is included. Check the previous item.

## A column template is not displayed

This will happen if the server template is set but the grid is configured for ajax binding. Set the [ClientTemplate](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/configuration#clienttemplate) as well.

## The grid cannot bind to WebAPI controller

Kendo Grid for ASP.NET MVC does not currently support WebAPI controllers. Cast your vote for in our [user voice](http://kendo.uservoice.com/forums/127393-kendo-ui-feedback/suggestions/2667632-make-kendo-datasource-compatible-with-asp-net-mvc-) forum!

## The "X" DataSource configuration option is not available

Not all settings of the DataSource are exposed via the `DataSource` fluent API. For full control over the DataSource consider using the client-side version of Kendo UI Grid.

## Client-side events are not raised in server bound mode

Kendo Grid for ASP.NET MVC will not raise all client-side events when configured for server bound mode.
Check the [server binding](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/server-binding#client-side-events-and-server-binding) help topic for further details.

Commit message:

Document the case when only client template is set.

getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
slug: mvc-grid-troubleshooting
publish: true
---

# Grid Troubleshooting

## The grid performs HTTP GET requests instead of POST

By default Kendo Grid for ASP.NET MVC should make POST requests when configured for [ajax binding](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/ajax-binding).
This is implemented by a custom DataSource transport and schema. Those are defined in the **kendo.aspnetmvc.min.js**. Make sure that this file is included **after** the other
Kendo JavaScript files. More info can be found in the [introduction help topic](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/introduction).

### Solution: Correct Order Of JavaScript Files
    <script src="/Scripts/kendo.web.min.js"></script> <-- or kendo.all.min.js -->
    <script src="/Scripts/kendo.aspnetmvc.min.js"></script>

## The ajax bound grid does not populate

There are various reasons which may cause this. Follow the troubleshooting instructions.

### Ajax Binding Troubleshooting

1. Use your browser's developer console to check for any JavaScript errors. In most browsers pressing **F12** will pop up the developer console. Address all JavaScript errors.
More info can be found in the [troubleshooting help topic](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnetmvc/troubleshooting).
2. Check the "Network" (or "Net" in Firebug) tab of the browser developer console. Look for a failed HTTP request for the action method configured via the `DataSource` grid setting.
    - HTTP status code [401](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes#401) indicates that authentication is required and has failed or not yet been provided.
    - HTTP status code [403](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes#403) indicates that request is not authorized. Perhaps the current user does not have
    the required permissions.
    - HTTP status code [404](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes#404) indicates that requested URL cannot be found.
    Check if the controller and action names are spelled correctly.
    - HTTP status code [500](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes#500) indicates that a server error occurred while process the request.
    Check what the server response is. In most cases it will contain the full .NET stacktrace. If the reason for the exception is not clear put a break-point
    in the action method and break with the debugger. Also check the [well known exceptions](#well-known-exceptions)
3. Check if you are using the `ToDataSourceResult` extension method. That method returns the data in the JSON format expected by Kendo Grid for ASP.NET MVC. Check the
[ajax binding](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/ajax-binding) help topic for further instructions.

## Well Known Exceptions

### A circular reference was detected while serializing an object of type

The reason for this error is that the [JavaScriptSerializer](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.script.serialization.javascriptserializer.aspx) class used by
the [Json](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.mvc.controller.json.aspx) method cannot serialize object graphs which contain circular references (refer to each other).
The best solution is to use View Model objects and avoid the serializing the properties which create the circular reference.
Check the ["How do I avoid circular reference exceptions"](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/faq#how-do-i-avoid-circular-reference-exceptions?) FAQ section for further information.

### Error during serialization or deserialization using the JSON JavaScriptSerializer

This exception is raised when the length of the data serialized as JSON exceeds the default [MaxJsonLength](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.web.script.serialization.javascriptserializer.maxjsonlength.aspx).
There are a few possible solutions:

1. Enable paging by calling the `Pageable` method
2. [Use a View Model](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/faq#how-do-i-convert-my-models-to-view-model-objects?) to serialize only the required properties of your model.
3. Return a custom action result

        public ActionResult Read([DataSourceRequest] DataSourceRequest request)
        {
            var data = GetData();
            var serializer = new JavaScriptSerializer();
            var result = new ContentResult();
            serializer.MaxJsonLength = Int32.MaxValue; // Whatever max length you want here
            result.Content = serializer.Serialize(data.ToDataSourceResult(request));
            result.ContentType = "application/json";
            return result;
        }

### This request has been blocked because sensitive information could be disclosed to third party web sites when this is used in a GET request

This exception would occur if **kendo.aspnetmvc.min.js** is not included or is included **before** kendo.web.min.js. The other reason is that the developer has explicitly
specified that the DataSource should make HTTP GET requests via the `Type` setting but didn't tell the `Json` method that HTTP GET requests are allowed.

#### Solution: Allow GET Requests
    // View

    // omitted for brevity
    .DataSource(dataSource => dataSource.Ajax()
        .Read(read => read.Action("Read", "Home").Type(HttpVerbs.Get)) // tell the DataSource to make GET requests
    // omitted for brevity

    // Controller
    public ActionResult Read([DataSourceRequest] DataSourceRequest request)
    {
        var data = GetData();

        return Json(result.ToDataSourceResult(request), JsonRequestBehavior.AllowGet);
    }

## The grid does not display numbers and dates in the right format for my culture

By default Kendo UI Grid formats dates and numbers using the **en-US** culture. To change the culture include the JavaScript for your culture and then call `kendo.culture`.

### Include Culture Specific Kendo JavaScript
    <script src="/Scripts/cultures/kendo.culture.de-DE.js"></script>
    <script>
        kendo.culture("de-DE");
    </script>

### Include JavaScript For The Current Culture (WebForms)
    <%
        var culture = System.Threading.Thread.CurrentThread.CurrentCulture.ToString();
    %>
    <script src="<%= Url.Content("~/Scripts/cultures/kendo.culture." + culture + ".min.js") %>"></script>
    <script>
        kendo.culture("<%= culture %>");
    </script>

### Include JavaScript For The Current Culture (Razor)
    @{
        var culture = System.Threading.Thread.CurrentThread.CurrentCulture.ToString();
    }
    <script src="@Url.Content("~/Scripts/cultures/kendo.culture." + culture + ".min.js")"></script>
    <script>
        kendo.culture("@culture");
    </script>

## The grid fails to update dates and numbers when the current culture is not en-US

Make sure the JavaScript file for that culture is included. Check the previous item.

## A column template is not displayed

This will happen if the server template is set but the grid is configured for ajax binding. Set the [ClientTemplate](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/configuration#clienttemplate) as well.
This will also happen if only the client template is set but the grid is configured for server binding. Set the [Template](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/configuration#template) as well.

## The grid cannot bind to WebAPI controller

Kendo Grid for ASP.NET MVC does not currently support WebAPI controllers. Cast your vote for in our [user voice](http://kendo.uservoice.com/forums/127393-kendo-ui-feedback/suggestions/2667632-make-kendo-datasource-compatible-with-asp-net-mvc-) forum!

## The "X" DataSource configuration option is not available

Not all settings of the DataSource are exposed via the `DataSource` fluent API. For full control over the DataSource consider using the client-side version of Kendo UI Grid.

## Client-side events are not raised in server bound mode

Kendo Grid for ASP.NET MVC will not raise all client-side events when configured for server bound mode.
Check the [server binding](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/aspnet-mvc/helpers/grid/server-binding#client-side-events-and-server-binding) help topic for further details.
