getting-started/using-kendo-with/jsp/tags/scheduler/overview.md, before:

---
title: Overview
slug: jsp-scheduler-overview
publish: true
---

# Scheduler

The Scheduler tag is a server-side wrapper for the [Kendo UI Scheduler](/getting-started/web/scheduler) widget.

## Getting Started

Here is how to configure the Kendo UI Scheduler for displaying and editing scheduler events.

1. Make sure you have followed all the steps from the [Introduction](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/jsp/introduction) help topic.
1. Create a class which will represent the scheduler event. We will call it `Task`.

        @Entity
        @Table(name="Tasks")
        public class Task {
            private int taskId;
            private Integer ownerId;
            private String title;
            private String description;
            private String recurrenceRule;
            private String recurrenceException;
            private Integer recurrenceId;
            private boolean isAllDay;
            private Date start;
            private Date end;

            @Id
            @Column(name="TaskID")
            @GeneratedValue(strategy=GenerationType.AUTO)
            public int getTaskId() {
                return taskId;
            }

            public void setTaskId(int taskId ) {
                this.taskId = taskId ;
            }

            @Column(name="OwnerID")
            public Integer getOwnerId() {
                return ownerId;
            }

            public void setOwnerId(Integer ownerId) {
                this.ownerId = ownerId;
            }

            @Column(name="Start")
            @JsonSerialize(using=IsoDateJsonSerializer.class)
            public Date getStart() {
                return start;
            }

            public void setStart(Date start) {
                this.start = start;
            }

            @Column(name="End")
            @JsonSerialize(using=IsoDateJsonSerializer.class)
            public Date getEnd() {
                return end;
            }

            public void setEnd(Date end) {
                this.end = end;
            }

            @Column(name="Title")
            public String getTitle() {
                return title;
            }

            public void setTitle(String title) {
                this.title = title;
            }

            @Column(name="Description")
            public String getDescription() {
                return description;
            }

            public void setDescription(String description) {
                this.description = description;
            }

            @Column(name="RecurrenceRule")
            public String getRecurrenceRule() {
                return recurrenceRule;
            }

            public void setRecurrenceRule(String recurrenceRule) {
                this.recurrenceRule = recurrenceRule;
            }

            @Column(name="IsAllDay")
            public boolean getIsAllDay() {
                return isAllDay;
            }

            public void setIsAllDay(boolean isAllDay) {
                this.isAllDay = isAllDay;
            }

            @Column(name="RecurrenceException")
            public String getRecurrenceException() {
                return recurrenceException;
            }

            public void setRecurrenceException(String recurrenceException) {
                this.recurrenceException = recurrenceException;
            }

            @Column(name="RecurrenceID")
            public Integer getRecurrenceId() {
                return recurrenceId;
            }

            public void setRecurrenceId(Integer recurrenceId) {
                this.recurrenceId = recurrenceId;
            }

        }
1. Register the Kendo UI JSP taglib in your JSP page

        <%@taglib prefix="kendo" uri="http://www.kendoui.com/jsp/tags"%>
1. Declare a scheduler tag. Configure it's data source model's fields.

        <kendo:scheduler name="scheduler" timezone="Etc/UTC" height="600" date="<%= date %>" startTime="<%= startTime %>">
            <kendo:dataSource batch="true">
                 <kendo:dataSource-schema>
                    <kendo:dataSource-schema-model id="taskId">
                         <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-fields>
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="taskId" type="number" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="title" defaultValue="No title" type="string" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="description" type="string" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="isAllDay" type="boolean" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="recurrenceRule" type="string" nullable="true"/>
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="recurrenceId" type="number" nullable="true" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="recurrenceException" type="string" nullable="true" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="ownerId" type="number" defaultValue="1" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="start" type="date" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="end" type="date" />
                        </kendo:dataSource-schema-model-fields>
                    </kendo:dataSource-schema-model>
                </kendo:dataSource-schema>
            </kendo:dataSource>
        </kendo:scheduler>
1. Specify the action methods which will perform the "create", "read", "update" and "destroy" operations:

        <kendo:scheduler name="scheduler" timezone="Etc/UTC" height="600" date="<%= date %>" startTime="<%= startTime %>">
            <kendo:dataSource batch="true">
                 <kendo:dataSource-schema>
                    <kendo:dataSource-schema-model id="taskId">
                         <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-fields>
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="taskId" type="number" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="title" defaultValue="No title" type="string" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="description" type="string" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="isAllDay" type="boolean" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="recurrenceRule" type="string" nullable="true"/>
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="recurrenceId" type="number" nullable="true" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="recurrenceException" type="string" nullable="true" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="ownerId" type="number" defaultValue="1" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="start" type="date" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="end" type="date" />
                        </kendo:dataSource-schema-model-fields>
                    </kendo:dataSource-schema-model>
                </kendo:dataSource-schema>
                <kendo:dataSource-transport>
                    <kendo:dataSource-transport-create url="${createUrl}" dataType="json" type="POST" contentType="application/json" />
                    <kendo:dataSource-transport-read url="${readUrl}" dataType="json" type="POST" contentType="application/json" />
                    <kendo:dataSource-transport-update url="${updateUrl}" dataType="json" type="POST" contentType="application/json" />
                    <kendo:dataSource-transport-destroy url="${destroyUrl}" dataType="json" type="POST" contentType="application/json" />
                    <kendo:dataSource-transport-parameterMap>
                        <script>
                            function parameterMap(options, type) {
                                if(type==="read"){
                                    return JSON.stringify(options);
                                } else {
                                    return JSON.stringify(options.models);
                                }
                            }
                        </script>
                </kendo:dataSource-transport-parameterMap>
            </kendo:dataSource-transport>
            </kendo:dataSource>
        </kendo:scheduler>
1. Implement the "create" method.

        @Autowired
        private TaskDao task;

        // The new scheduler events are posted as JSON
        @RequestMapping(value = "/index/create", method = RequestMethod.POST)
        public @ResponseBody List<Task> create(@RequestBody ArrayList<Map<String, Object>> models) throws ParseException {
            List<Task> tasks = new ArrayList<Task>();

            for (Map<String, Object> model : models) {
                Task task = new Task();

                task.setDescription((String)model.get("description"));
                task.setTitle((String)model.get("title"));

                SimpleDateFormat iso8601 = new SimpleDateFormat("yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSS'Z'");
                iso8601.setTimeZone(TimeZone.getTimeZone("UTC"));

                task.setStart(iso8601.parse((String)model.get("start")));
                task.setEnd(iso8601.parse((String)model.get("end")));
                task.setIsAllDay((boolean)model.get("isAllDay"));
                task.setRecurrenceRule((String)model.get("recurrenceRule"));
                task.setRecurrenceException((String)model.get("recurrenceException"));
                task.setRecurrenceId((Integer)model.get("recurrenceId"));

                tasks.add(task);
            }

            task.saveOrUpdate(tasks);

            return tasks;
        }
1. Implement the "read" method.

        // Return a list of Tasks as JSON
        @RequestMapping(value = "/index/read", method = RequestMethod.POST)
        public @ResponseBody List<Task> read() {
            return task.getList();
        }
1. Implement the "update" method.

        @RequestMapping(value = "/index/update", method = RequestMethod.POST)
        public @ResponseBody List<Task> update(@RequestBody ArrayList<Map<String, Object>> models) throws ParseException {
            List<Task> tasks = new ArrayList<Task>();

            for (Map<String, Object> model : models) {
                Task task = new Task();

                task.setTaskId((int)model.get("taskId"));
                task.setDescription((String)model.get("description"));
                task.setTitle((String)model.get("title"));

                SimpleDateFormat iso8601 = new SimpleDateFormat("yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSS'Z'");
                iso8601.setTimeZone(TimeZone.getTimeZone("UTC"));

                task.setStart(iso8601.parse((String)model.get("start")));
                task.setEnd(iso8601.parse((String)model.get("end")));
                task.setIsAllDay((boolean)model.get("isAllDay"));
                task.setRecurrenceRule((String)model.get("recurrenceRule"));
                task.setRecurrenceException((String)model.get("recurrenceException"));
                task.setRecurrenceId((Integer)model.get("recurrenceId"));

                tasks.add(task);
            }

            task.saveOrUpdate(tasks);

            return tasks;
        }
1. Implement the "destroy" method.

        @RequestMapping(value = "/index/destroy", method = RequestMethod.POST)
        public @ResponseBody List<Task> destroy(@RequestBody ArrayList<Map<String, Object>> models) {
            List<Task> tasks = new ArrayList<Task>();

            for (Map<String, Object> model : models) {
                Task task = new Task();

                task.setTaskId((int)model.get("taskId"));

                tasks.add(task);
            }

            task.delete(tasks);

            return tasks;
        }
## Getting reference to a Kendo UI Scheduler

To get a reference to a Kendo UI Scheduler instance, use the jQuery `data` and pass "kendoScheduler" as argument.

### Example - get reference to a Kendo UI Scheduler

    <kendo:scheduler name="scheduler">
        <!-- snip -->
    </kendo:scheduler>
    <script>
    // Get reference to the kendo.ui.Scheduler instance
    var scheduler = $("#scheduler").data("kendoScheduler");
    </script>

## Subscribing to the events of Kendo UI Scheduler

The scheduler widget supports a set of [events](/api/web/scheduler#events) which the developer can subscribe to. All events are exposed as attributes and nested tags of the scheduler JSP tag.

### Example - handle scheduler events by setting their attributes
    <kendo:scheduler name="scheduler" dataBound="scheduler_dataBound">
        <!-- snip -->
    </kendo:scheduler>
    <script>
    function scheduler_dataBound(e) {
        console.log("dataBound");
    }
    </script>

### Example - handle scheduler events by setting a nested tag
    <kendo:scheduler name="scheduler">
        <!-- snip -->
        <kendo:scheduler-dataBound>
            <script>
            function scheduler_dataBound(e) {
                console.log("dataBound");
            }
            </script>
        </kendo:scheduler-dataBound>
    </kendo:scheduler>

Commit message:

Add beta warnings to scheduler documentation.

getting-started/using-kendo-with/jsp/tags/scheduler/overview.md, after:

---
title: Overview
slug: jsp-scheduler-overview
publish: true
---

# Scheduler

The Scheduler tag is a server-side wrapper for the [Kendo UI Scheduler](/getting-started/web/scheduler) widget.

> Warning! The Kendo UI Scheduler is currently released as a beta. The final API and behavior of the widget may change.

## Getting Started

Here is how to configure the Kendo UI Scheduler for displaying and editing scheduler events.

1. Make sure you have followed all the steps from the [Introduction](/getting-started/using-kendo-with/jsp/introduction) help topic.
1. Create a class which will represent the scheduler event. We will call it `Task`.

        @Entity
        @Table(name="Tasks")
        public class Task {
            private int taskId;
            private Integer ownerId;
            private String title;
            private String description;
            private String recurrenceRule;
            private String recurrenceException;
            private Integer recurrenceId;
            private boolean isAllDay;
            private Date start;
            private Date end;

            @Id
            @Column(name="TaskID")
            @GeneratedValue(strategy=GenerationType.AUTO)
            public int getTaskId() {
                return taskId;
            }

            public void setTaskId(int taskId ) {
                this.taskId = taskId ;
            }

            @Column(name="OwnerID")
            public Integer getOwnerId() {
                return ownerId;
            }

            public void setOwnerId(Integer ownerId) {
                this.ownerId = ownerId;
            }

            @Column(name="Start")
            @JsonSerialize(using=IsoDateJsonSerializer.class)
            public Date getStart() {
                return start;
            }

            public void setStart(Date start) {
                this.start = start;
            }

            @Column(name="End")
            @JsonSerialize(using=IsoDateJsonSerializer.class)
            public Date getEnd() {
                return end;
            }

            public void setEnd(Date end) {
                this.end = end;
            }

            @Column(name="Title")
            public String getTitle() {
                return title;
            }

            public void setTitle(String title) {
                this.title = title;
            }

            @Column(name="Description")
            public String getDescription() {
                return description;
            }

            public void setDescription(String description) {
                this.description = description;
            }

            @Column(name="RecurrenceRule")
            public String getRecurrenceRule() {
                return recurrenceRule;
            }

            public void setRecurrenceRule(String recurrenceRule) {
                this.recurrenceRule = recurrenceRule;
            }

            @Column(name="IsAllDay")
            public boolean getIsAllDay() {
                return isAllDay;
            }

            public void setIsAllDay(boolean isAllDay) {
                this.isAllDay = isAllDay;
            }

            @Column(name="RecurrenceException")
            public String getRecurrenceException() {
                return recurrenceException;
            }

            public void setRecurrenceException(String recurrenceException) {
                this.recurrenceException = recurrenceException;
            }

            @Column(name="RecurrenceID")
            public Integer getRecurrenceId() {
                return recurrenceId;
            }

            public void setRecurrenceId(Integer recurrenceId) {
                this.recurrenceId = recurrenceId;
            }

        }
1. Register the Kendo UI JSP taglib in your JSP page

        <%@taglib prefix="kendo" uri="http://www.kendoui.com/jsp/tags"%>
1. Declare a scheduler tag. Configure it's data source model's fields.

        <kendo:scheduler name="scheduler" timezone="Etc/UTC" height="600" date="<%= date %>" startTime="<%= startTime %>">
            <kendo:dataSource batch="true">
                 <kendo:dataSource-schema>
                    <kendo:dataSource-schema-model id="taskId">
                         <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-fields>
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="taskId" type="number" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="title" defaultValue="No title" type="string" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="description" type="string" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="isAllDay" type="boolean" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="recurrenceRule" type="string" nullable="true"/>
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="recurrenceId" type="number" nullable="true" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="recurrenceException" type="string" nullable="true" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="ownerId" type="number" defaultValue="1" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="start" type="date" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="end" type="date" />
                        </kendo:dataSource-schema-model-fields>
                    </kendo:dataSource-schema-model>
                </kendo:dataSource-schema>
            </kendo:dataSource>
        </kendo:scheduler>
1. Specify the action methods which will perform the "create", "read", "update" and "destroy" operations:

        <kendo:scheduler name="scheduler" timezone="Etc/UTC" height="600" date="<%= date %>" startTime="<%= startTime %>">
            <kendo:dataSource batch="true">
                 <kendo:dataSource-schema>
                    <kendo:dataSource-schema-model id="taskId">
                         <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-fields>
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="taskId" type="number" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="title" defaultValue="No title" type="string" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="description" type="string" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="isAllDay" type="boolean" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="recurrenceRule" type="string" nullable="true"/>
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="recurrenceId" type="number" nullable="true" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="recurrenceException" type="string" nullable="true" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="ownerId" type="number" defaultValue="1" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="start" type="date" />
                             <kendo:dataSource-schema-model-field name="end" type="date" />
                        </kendo:dataSource-schema-model-fields>
                    </kendo:dataSource-schema-model>
                </kendo:dataSource-schema>
                <kendo:dataSource-transport>
                    <kendo:dataSource-transport-create url="${createUrl}" dataType="json" type="POST" contentType="application/json" />
                    <kendo:dataSource-transport-read url="${readUrl}" dataType="json" type="POST" contentType="application/json" />
                    <kendo:dataSource-transport-update url="${updateUrl}" dataType="json" type="POST" contentType="application/json" />
                    <kendo:dataSource-transport-destroy url="${destroyUrl}" dataType="json" type="POST" contentType="application/json" />
                    <kendo:dataSource-transport-parameterMap>
                        <script>
                            function parameterMap(options, type) {
                                if(type==="read"){
                                    return JSON.stringify(options);
                                } else {
                                    return JSON.stringify(options.models);
                                }
                            }
                        </script>
                </kendo:dataSource-transport-parameterMap>
            </kendo:dataSource-transport>
            </kendo:dataSource>
        </kendo:scheduler>
1. Implement the "create" method.

        @Autowired
        private TaskDao task;

        // The new scheduler events are posted as JSON
        @RequestMapping(value = "/index/create", method = RequestMethod.POST)
        public @ResponseBody List<Task> create(@RequestBody ArrayList<Map<String, Object>> models) throws ParseException {
            List<Task> tasks = new ArrayList<Task>();

            for (Map<String, Object> model : models) {
                Task task = new Task();

                task.setDescription((String)model.get("description"));
                task.setTitle((String)model.get("title"));

                SimpleDateFormat iso8601 = new SimpleDateFormat("yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSS'Z'");
                iso8601.setTimeZone(TimeZone.getTimeZone("UTC"));

                task.setStart(iso8601.parse((String)model.get("start")));
                task.setEnd(iso8601.parse((String)model.get("end")));
                task.setIsAllDay((boolean)model.get("isAllDay"));
                task.setRecurrenceRule((String)model.get("recurrenceRule"));
                task.setRecurrenceException((String)model.get("recurrenceException"));
                task.setRecurrenceId((Integer)model.get("recurrenceId"));

                tasks.add(task);
            }

            task.saveOrUpdate(tasks);

            return tasks;
        }
1. Implement the "read" method.

        // Return a list of Tasks as JSON
        @RequestMapping(value = "/index/read", method = RequestMethod.POST)
        public @ResponseBody List<Task> read() {
            return task.getList();
        }
1. Implement the "update" method.

        @RequestMapping(value = "/index/update", method = RequestMethod.POST)
        public @ResponseBody List<Task> update(@RequestBody ArrayList<Map<String, Object>> models) throws ParseException {
            List<Task> tasks = new ArrayList<Task>();

            for (Map<String, Object> model : models) {
                Task task = new Task();

                task.setTaskId((int)model.get("taskId"));
                task.setDescription((String)model.get("description"));
                task.setTitle((String)model.get("title"));

                SimpleDateFormat iso8601 = new SimpleDateFormat("yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSS'Z'");
                iso8601.setTimeZone(TimeZone.getTimeZone("UTC"));

                task.setStart(iso8601.parse((String)model.get("start")));
                task.setEnd(iso8601.parse((String)model.get("end")));
                task.setIsAllDay((boolean)model.get("isAllDay"));
                task.setRecurrenceRule((String)model.get("recurrenceRule"));
                task.setRecurrenceException((String)model.get("recurrenceException"));
                task.setRecurrenceId((Integer)model.get("recurrenceId"));

                tasks.add(task);
            }

            task.saveOrUpdate(tasks);

            return tasks;
        }
1. Implement the "destroy" method.

        @RequestMapping(value = "/index/destroy", method = RequestMethod.POST)
        public @ResponseBody List<Task> destroy(@RequestBody ArrayList<Map<String, Object>> models) {
            List<Task> tasks = new ArrayList<Task>();

            for (Map<String, Object> model : models) {
                Task task = new Task();

                task.setTaskId((int)model.get("taskId"));

                tasks.add(task);
            }

            task.delete(tasks);

            return tasks;
        }
## Getting reference to a Kendo UI Scheduler

To get a reference to a Kendo UI Scheduler instance, use the jQuery `data` and pass "kendoScheduler" as argument.

### Example - get reference to a Kendo UI Scheduler

    <kendo:scheduler name="scheduler">
        <!-- snip -->
    </kendo:scheduler>
    <script>
    // Get reference to the kendo.ui.Scheduler instance
    var scheduler = $("#scheduler").data("kendoScheduler");
    </script>

## Subscribing to the events of Kendo UI Scheduler

The scheduler widget supports a set of [events](/api/web/scheduler#events) which the developer can subscribe to. All events are exposed as attributes and nested tags of the scheduler JSP tag.

### Example - handle scheduler events by setting their attributes
    <kendo:scheduler name="scheduler" dataBound="scheduler_dataBound">
        <!-- snip -->
    </kendo:scheduler>
    <script>
    function scheduler_dataBound(e) {
        console.log("dataBound");
    }
    </script>

### Example - handle scheduler events by setting a nested tag
    <kendo:scheduler name="scheduler">
        <!-- snip -->
        <kendo:scheduler-dataBound>
            <script>
            function scheduler_dataBound(e) {
                console.log("dataBound");
            }
            </script>
        </kendo:scheduler-dataBound>
    </kendo:scheduler>
