getting-started/mobile/faq.md, before:

---
title: Kendo UI Mobile Frequently Asked Questions
meta_title: Kendo UI Mobile FAQ
meta_description: Answers to Frequently Asked Questions about how Kendo UI Mobile works and behaves
slug: gs-mobile-faq
tags: getting-started, mobile, faq
publish: true
---

# Kendo UI Mobile Frequently Asked Questions

This is a collection of frequently asked questions about how Kendo UI Mobile works and behaves.

## All platforms

### Q: I have a button with an onclick event attached, but the event doesn't fire every time?

A: Due to issues with simultaneous handling of mouse and touch events on hybrid devices, Kendo UI Mobile has strict requirements for events.
You can attach your handler to the Button's own click event.

### Q: I have several text entry forms in my application, but I experience strange issues in Android and WP8, what is going on?

A: Android has severe problems with input elements, especially when mixed with CSS3 transforms (which our mobile scroller uses for faster animation).
WP8 on the other hand switches off transforms when an input element is focused, thus stopping any scrolling and resetting the scroller to top.
Check the [Forms](./forms) article for more information about both. To avoid these issues, refer to View's [useNativeScroller](../../api/mobile/view#usenativescrolling-booleandefault-false)
config option or Scroller's [useNative](../../api/mobile/scroller.md#usenative-booleandefault-false) option.

### Q: My application looks different in all platforms, why is that?

A: Kendo UI Mobile strives to achieve native-like styling for the different platforms, hence the styling is completely different and tries to match the current device
styling automatically. If you want to have the same styling on all devices, choose the one you want and force it
through the Application [platform](./application#force-ios-5-look) option.

## iOS

### Q: My TabStrip looks different on different versions of the OS or even between iPad and iPhone, why?

A: Kendo UI Mobile tries to match the native look of several iOS platform versions and devices. Thus some widgets look slightly different on iOS 5 versus iOS 6.
Additionally tablet and phone styling is slightly different too. If you want to have the same styling on all iOS devices, choose the one you want and force it
through the Application [platform](./application#force-ios-5-look) option.

## Android

### Q: I have WebKit mask icons in my application and in some places Android renders them as colored squares?

A: WebKit mask icons break in Android when mixed with CSS3 transforms which our Scroller uses and the TabStrip.

## BlackBerry

### Q: I have webkit mask icons in my application and they are rendered as squares in BlackBerry OS 7.0?

A: WebKit masks are completely broken in BlackBerry OS 7.0. Either use font icons or normal images.

## Windows Phone 8

### Q: My icons do not render in WP8 PhoneGap or HTML5 apps, can I do something about it?

A: Local web fonts are not loaded in WP8 HTML5/PhoneGap apps or fonts loaded from local CSS. According to some sources,
external CSS should load web fonts, but we were not able to confirm this. As a workaround, use normal images for icons in WP8 HTML5/PhoneGap applications.

### Q: I get a gray background when I click on a link or label in Kendo UI Mobile under Windows Phone 8, why?

A: By default Windows Phone 8 highlights all links when they are active (hold down). Stopping this behaviour requires manually adding a meta tag to your application/site -
adding the tag through Javascript is ignored:

### Stop link highlighting in WP8

    <meta name="msapplication-tap-highlight" content="no" />

Commit message:

Add some more questions in the FAQ.

getting-started/mobile/faq.md, after:

---
title: Kendo UI Mobile Frequently Asked Questions
meta_title: Kendo UI Mobile FAQ
meta_description: Answers to Frequently Asked Questions about how Kendo UI Mobile works and behaves
slug: gs-mobile-faq
tags: getting-started, mobile, faq
publish: true
---

# Kendo UI Mobile Frequently Asked Questions

This is a collection of frequently asked questions about how Kendo UI Mobile works and behaves.

## All platforms

### Q: I have a button with an onclick event attached, but the event doesn't fire every time?

A: Due to issues with simultaneous handling of mouse and touch events on hybrid devices, Kendo UI Mobile has strict requirements for events.
You can attach your handler to the Button's own click event.

### Q: I have several text entry forms in my application, but I experience strange issues in Android and WP8, what is going on?

A: Android has severe problems with input elements, especially when mixed with CSS3 transforms (which our mobile scroller uses for faster animation).
WP8 on the other hand switches off transforms when an input element is focused, thus stopping any scrolling and resetting the scroller to top.
Check the [Forms](./forms) article for more information about both. To avoid these issues, refer to View's [useNativeScroller](../../api/mobile/view#usenativescrolling-booleandefault-false)
config option or Scroller's [useNative](../../api/mobile/scroller.md#usenative-booleandefault-false) option.

### Q: My application looks different in all platforms, why is that?

A: Kendo UI Mobile strives to achieve native-like styling for the different platforms, hence the styling is completely different and tries to match the current device
styling automatically. If you want to have the same styling on all devices, choose the one you want and force it
through the Application [platform](./application#force-ios-5-look) option.

## iOS

### Q: My TabStrip looks different on different versions of the OS or even between iPad and iPhone, why?

A: Kendo UI Mobile tries to match the native look of several iOS platform versions and devices. Thus some widgets look slightly different on iOS 5 versus iOS 6.
Additionally tablet and phone styling is slightly different too. If you want to have the same styling on all iOS devices, choose the one you want and force it
through the Application [platform](./application#force-ios-5-look) option.

## Android

### Q: I have WebKit mask icons in my application and in some places Android renders them as colored squares?

A: WebKit mask icons break in Android when mixed with CSS3 transforms which our Scroller uses and the TabStrip.

### Q: I have an Android 4.0 device and Kendo UI Mobile View transitions while very smooth seem to start much slower than on Android 2.x

A: The rendering hardware acceleration that Android 4.0 has does indeed perform much better than Android 2.x for View transitions, but the preparation of the hardware accelerated
layer that runs the animation takes considerable time. Your application will actually be much more responsive if you disable the hardware acceleration from the manifest file.
Check the [Performance](./performance) article for more information about that.

## BlackBerry

### Q: I have webkit mask icons in my application and they are rendered as squares in BlackBerry OS 7.0?

A: WebKit masks are completely broken in BlackBerry OS 7.0. Either use font icons or normal images.

### Q: My trackball doesn't seem to work properly, how should I scroll?

A: Kendo UI Mobile supports only touchscreen BlackBerry devices. The trackball/pad that can be found on the older phone models fires mouse events (which are handled), but
doesn't support content dragging. This limitation is listed in Kendo UI Mobile requirements.

## Windows Phone 8

### Q: My icons do not render in WP8 PhoneGap or HTML5 apps, can I do something about it?

A: Local web fonts are not loaded in WP8 HTML5/PhoneGap apps or fonts loaded from local CSS. According to some sources,
external CSS should load web fonts, but we were not able to confirm this. As a workaround, use normal images for icons in WP8 HTML5/PhoneGap applications.

### Q: I get a gray background when I click on a link or label in Kendo UI Mobile under Windows Phone 8, why?

A: By default Windows Phone 8 highlights all links when they are active (hold down). Stopping this behaviour requires manually adding a meta tag to your application/site -
adding the tag through Javascript is ignored:

### Stop link highlighting in WP8

    <meta name="msapplication-tap-highlight" content="no" />
