getting-started/mobile/listview.md, before:

---
title: ListView
meta_title: User guide for Kendo UI Mobile ListView Widget
meta_description: Documentation how to use capabilities of Kendo UI Mobile ListVeiw widget.
slug: gs-mobile-listview
relatedDocs: api-mobile-listview
tags: api,mobile
publish: true
---

# ListView

The Kendo Mobile ListView widget is used to display flat or grouped list of items.
It can be either used in unbound mode by enhancing an HTML `ul` element, or bound to a DataSource instance.

## Getting Started

The Kendo mobile Application automatically initializes the mobile ListView for every `ul` element with `role` data attribute set to
`listview` present in the application Views.
Alternatively, it can be initialized using jQuery plugin syntax in the containing mobile View **init event handler**.
The mobile ListView element may contain one or more `li` elements.

### Initialize mobile ListView using a role data attribute

    <ul data-role="listview">
        <li>Foo</li>
        <li>Bar</li>
    </ul>

### Initialize mobile ListView using jQuery plugin syntax

    <div data-role="view" data-init="initListView">
        <ul id="listView"></ul>
    </div>

    <script>
        function initListView(e) {
            e.view.element.find("#listView").kendoMobileListView();
        }
    </script>

## Inset Mobile ListView

In iOS, the mobile ListView appearance can be changed to **inset**, to achieve an effect similar to iOS grouped table views,
where the list items are padded from the container, and have rounded corners.
To do so, set the `style` data attribute to `inset`.
**Note:** This setting will not affect the appearance of the mobile ListView on Android/Blackberry devices.

### Create inset mobile ListView

    <ul data-role="listview" data-style="inset">
      <li>Foo</li>
      <li>Bar</li>
    </ul>

## Grouped mobile ListView

The mobile ListView can display items in groups, with optional headers. This can be achieved by nesting unordered lists in items,
and setting the widget's element `type` data attribute to `group`.

### Create grouped mobile ListView

    <ul data-role="listview" data-type="group">
        <li>
            Foo
            <ul>
                <li>Bar</li>
                <li>Baz</li>
            </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
            Bar
            <ul>
                <li>Bar</li>
                <li>Qux</li>
            </ul>
        </li>
    </ul>

## Binding to Data


The mobile ListView can be bound to both local JavaScript arrays and remote data via the
**Kendo DataSource component**. Local JavaScript arrays are appropriate for limited value
options, while remote data binding is better for larger data sets.

### Bind mobile ListView to a local data source.

    function initListView(e) {
        e.view.element.find("#listview").kendoMobileListView({
            dataSource: kendo.data.DataSource.create(["foo", "bar", "baz"])
         });
    });

## Customizing Item Templates

The mobile ListView leverages Kendo UI high-performance Templates to provide complete control
over item rendering. For a complete overview of Kendo UI Template capabilities and syntax,
please review the [Kendo UI Templates](http://www.kendoui.com/documentation/framework/templates/ "Kendo UI Template") documentation.

> The ListView automatically wraps the template content in `<li>` tag. Putting a `<li>` tag inside the template creates invalid nesting of elements.

### Basic item template customization

    <ul id="listview"></ul>

    <script type="text/javascript">
        function initListView(e) {
            e.view.element.find("#listview").kendoMobileListView({
                template : "<strong>#:data.foo#</strong>",
                dataSource: kendo.data.DataSource.create([{foo: "bar"}, {foo: "baz"}])
            });
        });
    </script>

### Setting item template via data attribute

    <div id="foo" data-role="view">
        <ul id="list" data-role="listview" data-source="dataSource" data-template="tmp"></ul>
    </div>

    <script id="tmp" type="text/x-kendo-template">
        <p>#: name # <span>Age: #: age #</span></p>
    </script>

    <script>
        var app = new kendo.mobile.Application();
        var dataSource = new kendo.data.DataSource({
            data: [
                { name: "Jane Doe", age: 30 },
                { name: "John Doe", age: 33 }
            ]
        });
    </script>

## Link Items

The mobile ListView will automatically style items with a single link element inside, adding a details indicator.

### ListView with link items

    <ul data-role="listview">
      <li><a href="#foo">Foo</a></li>
      <li><a href="#bar">Bar</a></li>
    </ul>

## Detail Buttons

Mobile ListView integrates with nested DetailButton widgets. These buttons are best suited when the user should be able to execute more than one action on a given row.
Detail buttons support 4 default data-styles: **contactadd**, **detaildisclose**, **rowinsert** and **rowdelete**, along custom icons
through the data-icon attribute. One row can contain both regular links and detail buttons.

### ListView with Detail Buttons

    <ul data-role="listview" data-style="inset" data-type="group">
        <li>
            Default button styles
            <ul>
                <li>Contact Add<a data-role="detailbutton" data-style="contactadd"></a></li>
                <li>Detail Disclose<a data-role="detailbutton" data-style="detaildisclose"></a></li>
                <li>Row Insert<a data-role="detailbutton" data-style="rowinsert"></a></li>
                <li>Row Delete<a data-role="detailbutton" data-style="rowdelete"></a></li>
            </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
            Custom icons
            <ul>
                <li>Battery level<a data-role="detailbutton" data-icon="battery"></a></li>
            </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
            Link Items & Detail Buttons
            <ul>
                <li><a>Row Insert</a><a data-role="detailbutton" data-style="rowinsert"></a></li>
                <li><a>Battery Level</a><a data-role="detailbutton" data-icon="battery"></a></li>
            </ul>
        </li>
    </ul>

## Item Icons

An icon can be set in two ways - either by adding an `img` element inside the `li` element, or by setting an `icon` data attribute to the `li` element.
if data attribute is used then an `a` element should be put in the `li` element. The icon class will be applied to the `a` element.
Kendo mobile ships with several ready to use icons:

*   <span class="km-icon km-about"></span>about
*   <span class="km-icon km-action"></span>action
*   <span class="km-icon km-add"></span>add
*   <span class="km-icon km-bookmarks"></span>bookmarks
*   <span class="km-icon km-camera"></span>camera
*   <span class="km-icon km-cart"></span>cart
*   <span class="km-icon km-compose"></span>compose
*   <span class="km-icon km-contacts"></span>contacts
*   <span class="km-icon km-details"></span>details
*   <span class="km-icon km-downloads"></span>downloads
*   <span class="km-icon km-fastforward"></span>fastforward
*   <span class="km-icon km-favorites"></span>favorites
*   <span class="km-icon km-featured"></span>featured
*   <span class="km-icon km-toprated"></span>toprated
*   <span class="km-icon km-globe"></span>globe
*   <span class="km-icon km-history"></span>history
*   <span class="km-icon km-home"></span>home
*   <span class="km-icon km-info"></span>info
*   <span class="km-icon km-more"></span>more
*   <span class="km-icon km-mostrecent"></span>mostrecent
*   <span class="km-icon km-mostviewed"></span>mostviewed
*   <span class="km-icon km-organize"></span>organize
*   <span class="km-icon km-pause"></span>pause
*   <span class="km-icon km-play"></span>play
*   <span class="km-icon km-recents"></span>recents
*   <span class="km-icon km-refresh"></span>refresh
*   <span class="km-icon km-reply"></span>reply
*   <span class="km-icon km-rewind"></span>rewind
*   <span class="km-icon km-search"></span>search
*   <span class="km-icon km-settings"></span>settings
*   <span class="km-icon km-share"></span>share
*   <span class="km-icon km-stop"></span>stop
*   <span class="km-icon km-trash"></span>trash

Additional icons may be added by defining the respective CSS class.
If the `icon` data attribute is set to `custom`, the tab will receive `km-custom` CSS class.

### Creating Custom Icons

In order to create colorizable icons like the default ones in Kendo UI Mobile, specify the icon image as a **box mask**
(either as dataURI or as a separate image). The image should be **PNG8** or **PNG24** with alpha channel (**PNG8+Alpha** is supported by
only few graphic editors, so **better stick with PNG24**). The image color is not important - it will be used as a mask only.

**Note**: **BlackBerry 7.0** has a bug that renders its masks as background-image, so it is recommended to use white in order to support it. The bug is fixed in **7.1**.

#### Define custom list item icon

    <style>
        .km-custom {
          -webkit-mask-box-image: url("foo.png");
        }
    </style>

    <ul data-role="listview" data-style="inset">
      <li data-icon="custom">
         <a>Home</a>
      </li>
      <li>
         Bar
      </li>
    </ul>

In Q3 2012 due to numerous issues with WebKit mask icons, they were deprecated and Kendo UI Mobile introduced font icons. Since the font is not easy editable,
the previous method for a mask icon can be used, but with some additional styling. Please note that the below example will restyle all font icons.

### Define custom list item icon after Q3 2012

    <style>
        /* Remove font icons styling, use .km- + data-icon name if only one should be overridden */
        .km-root .km-pane .km-view .km-icon {
            background-size: 100% 100%;
            -webkit-background-clip: border-box;
            background-color: currentcolor;
        }

        .km-custom {
            -webkit-mask-box-image: url("foo.png");
            background-color: red;
        }
    </style>

    <ul data-role="listview" data-style="inset">
      <li data-icon="custom">
         <a>Home</a>
      </li>
      <li>
         Bar
      </li>
    </ul>

If you want to add only one or two custom icons, specify them with their respective classes (.km- + data-icon name):

### Restyle only the added Kendo UI Mobile custom icon.

    .km-root .km-pane .km-view .km-question {
        background-size: 100% 100%;
        -webkit-background-clip: border-box;
        background-color: currentcolor;
    }

    .km-question {
        -webkit-mask-box-image: url("foo.png");
        background-color: red;
    }

When custom icons are used and their names are the same as the integrated Kendo UI Mobile icon names, make sure that the font icons are not rendered.

### Hide all Kendo UI Mobile font icons.

    /* Don't render all internal Kendo UI font icons
    .km-root .km-pane .km-view .km-icon:after,
    .km-root .km-pane .km-view .km-icon:before
    {
        visibility: hidden;
    }

Again if only several icons should be overridden, specify them with their classes instead:

### Hide specific Kendo UI Mobile font icons.

    .km-root .km-pane .km-view .km-favorites:after,
    .km-root .km-pane .km-view .km-favorites:before
    {
        visibility: hidden;
    }

Commit message:

Brief description of listview virtual mode

getting-started/mobile/listview.md, after:

---
title: ListView
meta_title: User guide for Kendo UI Mobile ListView Widget
meta_description: Documentation how to use capabilities of Kendo UI Mobile ListVeiw widget.
slug: gs-mobile-listview
relatedDocs: api-mobile-listview
tags: api,mobile
publish: true
---

# ListView

The Kendo Mobile ListView widget is used to display flat or grouped list of items.
It can be either used in unbound mode by enhancing an HTML `ul` element, or bound to a DataSource instance.

## Getting Started

The Kendo mobile Application automatically initializes the mobile ListView for every `ul` element with `role` data attribute set to
`listview` present in the application Views.
Alternatively, it can be initialized using jQuery plugin syntax in the containing mobile View **init event handler**.
The mobile ListView element may contain one or more `li` elements.

### Initialize mobile ListView using a role data attribute

    <ul data-role="listview">
        <li>Foo</li>
        <li>Bar</li>
    </ul>

### Initialize mobile ListView using jQuery plugin syntax

    <div data-role="view" data-init="initListView">
        <ul id="listView"></ul>
    </div>

    <script>
        function initListView(e) {
            e.view.element.find("#listView").kendoMobileListView();
        }
    </script>

## Inset Mobile ListView

In iOS, the mobile ListView appearance can be changed to **inset**, to achieve an effect similar to iOS grouped table views,
where the list items are padded from the container, and have rounded corners.
To do so, set the `style` data attribute to `inset`.
**Note:** This setting will not affect the appearance of the mobile ListView on Android/Blackberry devices.

### Create inset mobile ListView

    <ul data-role="listview" data-style="inset">
      <li>Foo</li>
      <li>Bar</li>
    </ul>

## Grouped mobile ListView

The mobile ListView can display items in groups, with optional headers. This can be achieved by nesting unordered lists in items,
and setting the widget's element `type` data attribute to `group`.

### Create grouped mobile ListView

    <ul data-role="listview" data-type="group">
        <li>
            Foo
            <ul>
                <li>Bar</li>
                <li>Baz</li>
            </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
            Bar
            <ul>
                <li>Bar</li>
                <li>Qux</li>
            </ul>
        </li>
    </ul>

## Binding to Data

The mobile ListView can be bound to both local JavaScript arrays and remote data via the
**Kendo DataSource component**. Local JavaScript arrays are appropriate for limited value
options, while remote data binding is better for larger data sets.

### Bind mobile ListView to a local data source.

    function initListView(e) {
        e.view.element.find("#listview").kendoMobileListView({
            dataSource: kendo.data.DataSource.create(["foo", "bar", "baz"])
         });
    });

## Customizing Item Templates

The mobile ListView leverages Kendo UI high-performance Templates to provide complete control
over item rendering. For a complete overview of Kendo UI Template capabilities and syntax,
please review the [Kendo UI Templates](http://www.kendoui.com/documentation/framework/templates/ "Kendo UI Template") documentation.

> The ListView automatically wraps the template content in `<li>` tag. Putting a `<li>` tag inside the template creates invalid nesting of elements.

### Basic item template customization

    <ul id="listview"></ul>

    <script type="text/javascript">
        function initListView(e) {
            e.view.element.find("#listview").kendoMobileListView({
                template : "<strong>#:data.foo#</strong>",
                dataSource: kendo.data.DataSource.create([{foo: "bar"}, {foo: "baz"}])
            });
        });
    </script>

### Setting item template via data attribute

    <div id="foo" data-role="view">
        <ul id="list" data-role="listview" data-source="dataSource" data-template="tmp"></ul>
    </div>

    <script id="tmp" type="text/x-kendo-template">
        <p>#: name # <span>Age: #: age #</span></p>
    </script>

    <script>
        var app = new kendo.mobile.Application();
        var dataSource = new kendo.data.DataSource({
            data: [
                { name: "Jane Doe", age: 30 },
                { name: "John Doe", age: 33 }
            ]
        });
    </script>

## Press to Load More / Endless Scrolling

The listview widget supports displaying large amounts of data by appending additional pages of data on demand.
Loading can happen automatically by enabling [endless scrolling](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/mobile/listview#configuration-endlessScroll), or by displaying a button at the bottom ([ press to load more ](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/mobile/listview#configuration-loadMore)).
Enabling endless scrolling or press to load more options triggers the **virtual mode** of the ListView.
In virtual mode, fixed amount of DOM elements is rendered, and then dynamically repositioned and updated when the user scrolls the view.
In endless scrolling mode, the next page is automatically prefetched when the user scrolls past two thirds of the current set of items.
The amount of actual DOM elements used in virtual mode is equal to half of the datasource page size option.
In order for the scrolling to occur smoothly, the page size should **not be too low**.
For example, if 5 items are visible on the page, at least 15 physical DOM elements are needed, which means that the DataSource page size should be 30 or greater.
**Notice** Bigger DataSource page size ensures smooth scrolling, but has adverce effects on view transition performance.
Once the listview reaches the amount of items specified by the [schema.total](http://docs.kendoui.com/api/framework/datasource#configuration-schema.total) setting of the datasource, the loadmore button/endless scrolling indicator is hidden.

## Link Items

The mobile ListView will automatically style items with a single link element inside, adding a details indicator.

### ListView with link items

    <ul data-role="listview">
      <li><a href="#foo">Foo</a></li>
      <li><a href="#bar">Bar</a></li>
    </ul>

## Detail Buttons

Mobile ListView integrates with nested DetailButton widgets. These buttons are best suited when the user should be able to execute more than one action on a given row.
Detail buttons support 4 default data-styles: **contactadd**, **detaildisclose**, **rowinsert** and **rowdelete**, along custom icons
through the data-icon attribute. One row can contain both regular links and detail buttons.

### ListView with Detail Buttons

    <ul data-role="listview" data-style="inset" data-type="group">
        <li>
            Default button styles
            <ul>
                <li>Contact Add<a data-role="detailbutton" data-style="contactadd"></a></li>
                <li>Detail Disclose<a data-role="detailbutton" data-style="detaildisclose"></a></li>
                <li>Row Insert<a data-role="detailbutton" data-style="rowinsert"></a></li>
                <li>Row Delete<a data-role="detailbutton" data-style="rowdelete"></a></li>
            </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
            Custom icons
            <ul>
                <li>Battery level<a data-role="detailbutton" data-icon="battery"></a></li>
            </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
            Link Items & Detail Buttons
            <ul>
                <li><a>Row Insert</a><a data-role="detailbutton" data-style="rowinsert"></a></li>
                <li><a>Battery Level</a><a data-role="detailbutton" data-icon="battery"></a></li>
            </ul>
        </li>
    </ul>

## Item Icons

An icon can be set in two ways - either by adding an `img` element inside the `li` element, or by setting an `icon` data attribute to the `li` element.
if data attribute is used then an `a` element should be put in the `li` element. The icon class will be applied to the `a` element.
Kendo mobile ships with several ready to use icons:

*   <span class="km-icon km-about"></span>about
*   <span class="km-icon km-action"></span>action
*   <span class="km-icon km-add"></span>add
*   <span class="km-icon km-bookmarks"></span>bookmarks
*   <span class="km-icon km-camera"></span>camera
*   <span class="km-icon km-cart"></span>cart
*   <span class="km-icon km-compose"></span>compose
*   <span class="km-icon km-contacts"></span>contacts
*   <span class="km-icon km-details"></span>details
*   <span class="km-icon km-downloads"></span>downloads
*   <span class="km-icon km-fastforward"></span>fastforward
*   <span class="km-icon km-favorites"></span>favorites
*   <span class="km-icon km-featured"></span>featured
*   <span class="km-icon km-toprated"></span>toprated
*   <span class="km-icon km-globe"></span>globe
*   <span class="km-icon km-history"></span>history
*   <span class="km-icon km-home"></span>home
*   <span class="km-icon km-info"></span>info
*   <span class="km-icon km-more"></span>more
*   <span class="km-icon km-mostrecent"></span>mostrecent
*   <span class="km-icon km-mostviewed"></span>mostviewed
*   <span class="km-icon km-organize"></span>organize
*   <span class="km-icon km-pause"></span>pause
*   <span class="km-icon km-play"></span>play
*   <span class="km-icon km-recents"></span>recents
*   <span class="km-icon km-refresh"></span>refresh
*   <span class="km-icon km-reply"></span>reply
*   <span class="km-icon km-rewind"></span>rewind
*   <span class="km-icon km-search"></span>search
*   <span class="km-icon km-settings"></span>settings
*   <span class="km-icon km-share"></span>share
*   <span class="km-icon km-stop"></span>stop
*   <span class="km-icon km-trash"></span>trash

Additional icons may be added by defining the respective CSS class.
If the `icon` data attribute is set to `custom`, the tab will receive `km-custom` CSS class.

### Creating Custom Icons

In order to create colorizable icons like the default ones in Kendo UI Mobile, specify the icon image as a **box mask**
(either as dataURI or as a separate image). The image should be **PNG8** or **PNG24** with alpha channel (**PNG8+Alpha** is supported by
only few graphic editors, so **better stick with PNG24**). The image color is not important - it will be used as a mask only.

**Note**: **BlackBerry 7.0** has a bug that renders its masks as background-image, so it is recommended to use white in order to support it. The bug is fixed in **7.1**.

#### Define custom list item icon

    <style>
        .km-custom {
          -webkit-mask-box-image: url("foo.png");
        }
    </style>

    <ul data-role="listview" data-style="inset">
      <li data-icon="custom">
         <a>Home</a>
      </li>
      <li>
         Bar
      </li>
    </ul>

In Q3 2012 due to numerous issues with WebKit mask icons, they were deprecated and Kendo UI Mobile introduced font icons. Since the font is not easy editable,
the previous method for a mask icon can be used, but with some additional styling. Please note that the below example will restyle all font icons.

### Define custom list item icon after Q3 2012

    <style>
        /* Remove font icons styling, use .km- + data-icon name if only one should be overridden */
        .km-root .km-pane .km-view .km-icon {
            background-size: 100% 100%;
            -webkit-background-clip: border-box;
            background-color: currentcolor;
        }

        .km-custom {
            -webkit-mask-box-image: url("foo.png");
            background-color: red;
        }
    </style>

    <ul data-role="listview" data-style="inset">
      <li data-icon="custom">
         <a>Home</a>
      </li>
      <li>
         Bar
      </li>
    </ul>

If you want to add only one or two custom icons, specify them with their respective classes (.km- + data-icon name):

### Restyle only the added Kendo UI Mobile custom icon.

    .km-root .km-pane .km-view .km-question {
        background-size: 100% 100%;
        -webkit-background-clip: border-box;
        background-color: currentcolor;
    }

    .km-question {
        -webkit-mask-box-image: url("foo.png");
        background-color: red;
    }

When custom icons are used and their names are the same as the integrated Kendo UI Mobile icon names, make sure that the font icons are not rendered.

### Hide all Kendo UI Mobile font icons.

    /* Don't render all internal Kendo UI font icons
    .km-root .km-pane .km-view .km-icon:after,
    .km-root .km-pane .km-view .km-icon:before
    {
        visibility: hidden;
    }

Again if only several icons should be overridden, specify them with their classes instead:

### Hide specific Kendo UI Mobile font icons.

    .km-root .km-pane .km-view .km-favorites:after,
    .km-root .km-pane .km-view .km-favorites:before
    {
        visibility: hidden;
    }
