api/wrappers/php/Kendo/UI/TreeView.md, before:

---
title: TreeView
slug: php-ui-treeview
tags: api, php
publish: true
---

# \Kendo\UI\TreeView

A PHP class representing Kendo [TreeView](/api/web/treeview).

Inherits from [\Kendo\UI\Widget](/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/UI/Widget).

## Usage

To use TreeView in a PHP page instantiate a new instance, configure it via the available
configuration [methods](#methods) and output it by `echo`-ing the result of the [render](/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/UI/Widget#render) method.

### Using Kendo TreeView

    <?php
    // Create a new instance of TreeView and specify its id
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');

    // Configure it
    $treeView->checkboxes(true)

    // Output it

    echo $treeView->render();
    ?>


## Methods

### animation

A collection of visual animations used when items are expanded or collapsed through user interaction.
Setting this option to false will disable all animations.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\UI\TreeViewAnimation|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\UI\TreeViewAnimation](/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/UI/TreeViewAnimation)
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $animation = new \Kendo\UI\TreeViewAnimation();
    $collapse = new \Kendo\UI\TreeViewAnimationCollapse();
    $animation->collapse($collapse);
    $treeView->animation($animation);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $collapse = new \Kendo\UI\TreeViewAnimationCollapse();
    $treeView->animation(array('collapse' => $collapse));
    ?>

### checkboxes

If true or an object, renders checkboxes within each treeview item.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `boolean|\Kendo\UI\TreeViewCheckboxes|array`




#### Example  - using boolean
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->checkboxes(true);
    ?>


#### Example - using [\Kendo\UI\TreeViewCheckboxes](/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/UI/TreeViewCheckboxes)
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $checkboxes = new \Kendo\UI\TreeViewCheckboxes();
    $checkChildren = true;
    $checkboxes->checkChildren($checkChildren);
    $treeView->checkboxes($checkboxes);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $checkChildren = true;
    $treeView->checkboxes(array('checkChildren' => $checkChildren));
    ?>

### collapse
Triggered before a subgroup gets collapsed.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->collapse('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onCollapse(e) {
            // handle the collapse event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->collapse('onCollapse');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->collapse(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### dataBound
Triggered after the dataSource change event has been processed (adding/removing items);

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataBound('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onDataBound(e) {
            // handle the dataBound event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataBound('onDataBound');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataBound(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### dataImageUrlField
Sets the field of the data item that provides
the image URL of the treeview nodes.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataImageUrlField('value');
    ?>

### dataSource

Sets the data source of the dataSource.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Data\HierarchicalDataSource|array`

#### Example - using [\Kendo\Data\HierarchicalDataSource](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/data/hierarchicaldatasource)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $dataSource = new \Kendo\Data\HierarchicalDataSource();
    $treeView->dataSource($dataSource);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $schema = new \Kendo\Data\DataSourceSchema();
    $treeView->dataSource(array('schema' => $schema));
    ?>

### dataSpriteCssClassField
Sets the field of the data item that provides
the sprite CSS class of the treeview nodes.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataSpriteCssClassField('value');
    ?>

### dataTextField
Sets the field of the data item that provides
the text content of the treeview nodes.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataTextField('value');
    ?>

### dataUrlField
Sets the field of the data item that provides
the link URL of the treeview nodes.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataUrlField('value');
    ?>

### drag
Triggered while a node is being dragged.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->drag('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onDrag(e) {
            // handle the drag event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->drag('onDrag');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->drag(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### dragAndDrop
Disables (false) or enables (true) drag-and-drop on the nodes of a
TreeView.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `boolean`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dragAndDrop(true);
    ?>

### dragend
Triggered after a node has been dropped.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dragend('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onDragend(e) {
            // handle the dragend event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dragend('onDragend');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dragend(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### dragstart
Triggered before the dragging of a node starts.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dragstart('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onDragstart(e) {
            // handle the dragstart event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dragstart('onDragstart');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dragstart(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### drop
Triggered when a node is being dropped.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->drop('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onDrop(e) {
            // handle the drop event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->drop('onDrop');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->drop(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### expand
Triggered before a subgroup gets expanded.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->expand('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onExpand(e) {
            // handle the expand event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->expand('onExpand');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->expand(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### addItem

Adds one or more TreeViewItem to the TreeView.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value[, $value2, ...] `\Kendo\UI\TreeViewItem|array`

#### Example - using \Kendo\UI\TreeViewItem

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $item = new \Kendo\UI\TreeViewItem();
    $enabled = true;
    $item->enabled($enabled);
    $treeView->addItem($item);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $enabled = true;
    $treeView->addItem(array('enabled' => $enabled));
    ?>

#### Example - adding more than one TreeViewItem

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $first  = new \Kendo\UI\TreeViewItem();
    $second = new \Kendo\UI\TreeViewItem();
    $treeView->addItem($first, $second);
    ?>

### loadOnDemand
Indicates whether the child datasources should be fetched
lazily, when parent groups get expanded. Setting this to false causes all child dataSources to
be loaded at initialization time. Note: when initializing a TreeView from array (rather than from a
HierarchicalDataSource instance), the default value of this option is false.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `boolean`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->loadOnDemand(true);
    ?>

### navigate
Triggered when the user moves the focus on another node

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->navigate('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onNavigate(e) {
            // handle the navigate event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->navigate('onNavigate');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->navigate(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### select
Triggered when a node gets selected.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->select('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onSelect(e) {
            // handle the select event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->select('onSelect');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->select(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### template
Template for rendering of the nodes of the treeview.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`



#### Example  - using string
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->template('value');
    ?>

#### Example  - using \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->template(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function() { }'));
    ?>

Commit message:

Add PHP docs about dataTextField as array option

api/wrappers/php/Kendo/UI/TreeView.md, after:

---
title: TreeView
slug: php-ui-treeview
tags: api, php
publish: true
---

# \Kendo\UI\TreeView

A PHP class representing Kendo [TreeView](/api/web/treeview).

Inherits from [\Kendo\UI\Widget](/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/UI/Widget).

## Usage

To use TreeView in a PHP page instantiate a new instance, configure it via the available
configuration [methods](#methods) and output it by `echo`-ing the result of the [render](/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/UI/Widget#render) method.

### Using Kendo TreeView

    <?php
    // Create a new instance of TreeView and specify its id
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');

    // Configure it
    $treeView->checkboxes(true)

    // Output it

    echo $treeView->render();
    ?>


## Methods

### animation

A collection of visual animations used when items are expanded or collapsed through user interaction.
Setting this option to false will disable all animations.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\UI\TreeViewAnimation|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\UI\TreeViewAnimation](/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/UI/TreeViewAnimation)
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $animation = new \Kendo\UI\TreeViewAnimation();
    $collapse = new \Kendo\UI\TreeViewAnimationCollapse();
    $animation->collapse($collapse);
    $treeView->animation($animation);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $collapse = new \Kendo\UI\TreeViewAnimationCollapse();
    $treeView->animation(array('collapse' => $collapse));
    ?>

### checkboxes

If true or an object, renders checkboxes within each treeview item.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `boolean|\Kendo\UI\TreeViewCheckboxes|array`




#### Example  - using boolean
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->checkboxes(true);
    ?>


#### Example - using [\Kendo\UI\TreeViewCheckboxes](/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/UI/TreeViewCheckboxes)
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $checkboxes = new \Kendo\UI\TreeViewCheckboxes();
    $checkChildren = true;
    $checkboxes->checkChildren($checkChildren);
    $treeView->checkboxes($checkboxes);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $checkChildren = true;
    $treeView->checkboxes(array('checkChildren' => $checkChildren));
    ?>

### collapse
Triggered before a subgroup gets collapsed.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->collapse('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onCollapse(e) {
            // handle the collapse event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->collapse('onCollapse');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->collapse(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### dataBound
Triggered after the dataSource change event has been processed (adding/removing items);

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataBound('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onDataBound(e) {
            // handle the dataBound event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataBound('onDataBound');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataBound(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### dataImageUrlField
Sets the field of the data item that provides
the image URL of the treeview nodes.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataImageUrlField('value');
    ?>

### dataSource

Sets the data source of the dataSource.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Data\HierarchicalDataSource|array`

#### Example - using [\Kendo\Data\HierarchicalDataSource](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/data/hierarchicaldatasource)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $dataSource = new \Kendo\Data\HierarchicalDataSource();
    $treeView->dataSource($dataSource);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $schema = new \Kendo\Data\DataSourceSchema();
    $treeView->dataSource(array('schema' => $schema));
    ?>

### dataSpriteCssClassField
Sets the field of the data item that provides
the sprite CSS class of the treeview nodes.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataSpriteCssClassField('value');
    ?>

### dataTextField
Sets the field of the data item that provides the text content of the treeview nodes.
If an array, each level uses the field that is at the same index in the array, or the last item in the array.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|array`



#### Example  - using string
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataTextField('value');
    ?>

#### Example  - using array
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataTextField(new array());
    ?>

### dataUrlField
Sets the field of the data item that provides
the link URL of the treeview nodes.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dataUrlField('value');
    ?>

### drag
Triggered while a node is being dragged.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->drag('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onDrag(e) {
            // handle the drag event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->drag('onDrag');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->drag(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### dragAndDrop
Disables (false) or enables (true) drag-and-drop on the nodes of a
TreeView.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `boolean`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dragAndDrop(true);
    ?>

### dragend
Triggered after a node has been dropped.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dragend('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onDragend(e) {
            // handle the dragend event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dragend('onDragend');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dragend(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### dragstart
Triggered before the dragging of a node starts.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dragstart('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onDragstart(e) {
            // handle the dragstart event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dragstart('onDragstart');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->dragstart(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### drop
Triggered when a node is being dropped.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->drop('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onDrop(e) {
            // handle the drop event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->drop('onDrop');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->drop(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### expand
Triggered before a subgroup gets expanded.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->expand('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onExpand(e) {
            // handle the expand event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->expand('onExpand');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->expand(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### addItem

Adds one or more TreeViewItem to the TreeView.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value[, $value2, ...] `\Kendo\UI\TreeViewItem|array`

#### Example - using \Kendo\UI\TreeViewItem

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $item = new \Kendo\UI\TreeViewItem();
    $enabled = true;
    $item->enabled($enabled);
    $treeView->addItem($item);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $enabled = true;
    $treeView->addItem(array('enabled' => $enabled));
    ?>

#### Example - adding more than one TreeViewItem

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $first  = new \Kendo\UI\TreeViewItem();
    $second = new \Kendo\UI\TreeViewItem();
    $treeView->addItem($first, $second);
    ?>

### loadOnDemand
Indicates whether the child datasources should be fetched
lazily, when parent groups get expanded. Setting this to false causes all child dataSources to
be loaded at initialization time. Note: when initializing a TreeView from array (rather than from a
HierarchicalDataSource instance), the default value of this option is false.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `boolean`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->loadOnDemand(true);
    ?>

### navigate
Triggered when the user moves the focus on another node

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->navigate('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onNavigate(e) {
            // handle the navigate event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->navigate('onNavigate');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->navigate(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### select
Triggered when a node gets selected.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript function

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->select('function(e) { }');
    ?>

#### Example - using string which defines a JavaScript name
    <script>
        function onSelect(e) {
            // handle the select event.
        }
    </script>
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->select('onSelect');
    ?>

#### Example - using [\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction](/api/wrappers/php/kendo/javascriptfunction)

    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->select(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function(e) { }'));
    ?>

### template
Template for rendering of the nodes of the treeview.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\UI\TreeView`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string|\Kendo\JavaScriptFunction`



#### Example  - using string
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->template('value');
    ?>

#### Example  - using \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction
    <?php
    $treeView = new \Kendo\UI\TreeView('TreeView');
    $treeView->template(new \Kendo\JavaScriptFunction('function() { }'));
    ?>
