api/wrappers/jsp/upload/localization.md, before:

---
title: upload-localization
slug: jsp-upload-localization
tags: api, java
publish: true
---

# \<kendo:upload-localization\>
A JSP tag representing Kendo Localization.

#### Example
    <kendo:upload>
        <kendo:upload-localization></kendo:upload-localization>
    </kendo:upload>


## Configuration Attributes


### cancel `String`

Sets the text of the cancel button text. Related tag: [kendo:upload-cancel](#kendo-upload-cancel). 

#### Example
    <kendo:upload cancel="cancel">
    </kendo:upload>



### dropFilesHere `String`

Sets the drop zone hint.

#### Example
    <kendo:upload dropFilesHere="dropFilesHere">
    </kendo:upload>



### remove `String`

Sets the text of the remove button text. Related tag: [kendo:upload-remove](#kendo-upload-remove). 

#### Example
    <kendo:upload remove="remove">
    </kendo:upload>



### retry `String`

Sets the text of the retry button text.

#### Example
    <kendo:upload retry="retry">
    </kendo:upload>



### select `String`

Sets the "Select..." button text. Related tag: [kendo:upload-select](#kendo-upload-select). 

#### Example
    <kendo:upload select="select">
    </kendo:upload>



### statusFailed `String`

Sets the status message for failed uploads.

#### Example
    <kendo:upload statusFailed="statusFailed">
    </kendo:upload>



### statusUploaded `String`

Sets the status message for uploaded files.

#### Example
    <kendo:upload statusUploaded="statusUploaded">
    </kendo:upload>



### statusUploading `String`

Sets the status message for files that are being uploaded.

#### Example
    <kendo:upload statusUploading="statusUploading">
    </kendo:upload>



### uploadSelectedFiles `String`

Sets the text of the "Upload files" button.

#### Example
    <kendo:upload uploadSelectedFiles="uploadSelectedFiles">
    </kendo:upload>

Commit message:

Change the text which shows related tags.

api/wrappers/jsp/upload/localization.md, after:

---
title: upload-localization
slug: jsp-upload-localization
tags: api, java
publish: true
---

# \<kendo:upload-localization\>
A JSP tag representing Kendo Localization.

#### Example
    <kendo:upload>
        <kendo:upload-localization></kendo:upload-localization>
    </kendo:upload>


## Configuration Attributes


### cancel `String`

Sets the text of the cancel button text. Further configuration is available via [kendo:upload-cancel](#kendo-upload-cancel). 

#### Example
    <kendo:upload cancel="cancel">
    </kendo:upload>



### dropFilesHere `String`

Sets the drop zone hint.

#### Example
    <kendo:upload dropFilesHere="dropFilesHere">
    </kendo:upload>



### remove `String`

Sets the text of the remove button text. Further configuration is available via [kendo:upload-remove](#kendo-upload-remove). 

#### Example
    <kendo:upload remove="remove">
    </kendo:upload>



### retry `String`

Sets the text of the retry button text.

#### Example
    <kendo:upload retry="retry">
    </kendo:upload>



### select `String`

Sets the "Select..." button text. Further configuration is available via [kendo:upload-select](#kendo-upload-select). 

#### Example
    <kendo:upload select="select">
    </kendo:upload>



### statusFailed `String`

Sets the status message for failed uploads.

#### Example
    <kendo:upload statusFailed="statusFailed">
    </kendo:upload>



### statusUploaded `String`

Sets the status message for uploaded files.

#### Example
    <kendo:upload statusUploaded="statusUploaded">
    </kendo:upload>



### statusUploading `String`

Sets the status message for files that are being uploaded.

#### Example
    <kendo:upload statusUploading="statusUploading">
    </kendo:upload>



### uploadSelectedFiles `String`

Sets the text of the "Upload files" button.

#### Example
    <kendo:upload uploadSelectedFiles="uploadSelectedFiles">
    </kendo:upload>
