api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItem.md, before:

---
title: ChartYAxisItem
slug: php-dataviz-ui-chartyaxisitem
tags: api, php
publish: true
---

# \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem

A PHP class representing the yAxisItem setting of ChartYAxis.


## Methods

### axisCrossingValue
Value at which the Y axis crosses this axis. (Only for object)Value indices at which the Y axes cross the value axis. (Only for array)Date at which the Y axis crosses this axis. (Only for date)

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `|date|array`



#### Example  - using 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->axisCrossingValue(new ());
    ?>

#### Example  - using date
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->axisCrossingValue(new date());
    ?>

#### Example  - using array
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->axisCrossingValue(new array());
    ?>

### background
The background color of the axis.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->background('value');
    ?>

### baseUnit
The base time interval for the axis labels. The default baseUnit is determined automatically from the value range. Available options:

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->baseUnit('value');
    ?>

### color
The color of the axis. Accepts a valid CSS color string, including hex and rgb.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->color('value');
    ?>

### crosshair

The crosshair configuration options.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemCrosshair|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemCrosshair](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemCrosshair)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $crosshair = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemCrosshair();
    $color = 'value';
    $crosshair->color($color);
    $yAxisItem->crosshair($crosshair);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $color = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->crosshair(array('color' => $color));
    ?>

### labels

The axis labels configuration.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemLabels|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemLabels](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemLabels)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $labels = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemLabels();
    $background = 'value';
    $labels->background($background);
    $yAxisItem->labels($labels);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $background = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->labels(array('background' => $background));
    ?>

### line

The configuration of the axis lines. Also affects the major and minor ticks, but not the grid lines.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemLine|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemLine](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemLine)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $line = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemLine();
    $color = 'value';
    $line->color($color);
    $yAxisItem->line($line);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $color = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->line(array('color' => $color));
    ?>

### majorGridLines

The configuration of the major grid lines. These are the lines that are an extension of the major ticks through the
body of the chart.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMajorGridLines|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMajorGridLines](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemMajorGridLines)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $majorGridLines = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMajorGridLines();
    $color = 'value';
    $majorGridLines->color($color);
    $yAxisItem->majorGridLines($majorGridLines);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $color = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->majorGridLines(array('color' => $color));
    ?>

### majorTicks

The configuration of the scatter chart y axis major ticks.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMajorTicks|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMajorTicks](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemMajorTicks)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $majorTicks = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMajorTicks();
    $color = 'value';
    $majorTicks->color($color);
    $yAxisItem->majorTicks($majorTicks);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $color = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->majorTicks(array('color' => $color));
    ?>

### majorUnit
The interval between major divisions.
If this is a date axis the value represents the number of xAxis.baseUnits between major divisions.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `float`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->majorUnit(1);
    ?>

### max
The maximum value of the axis.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value ``



### min
The minimum value of the axis.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value ``



### minorGridLines

The configuration of the minor grid lines. These are the lines that are an extension of the minor ticks through the
body of the chart.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMinorGridLines|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMinorGridLines](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemMinorGridLines)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $minorGridLines = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMinorGridLines();
    $color = 'value';
    $minorGridLines->color($color);
    $yAxisItem->minorGridLines($minorGridLines);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $color = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->minorGridLines(array('color' => $color));
    ?>

### minorTicks

The configuration of the y axis minor ticks.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMinorTicks|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMinorTicks](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemMinorTicks)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $minorTicks = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMinorTicks();
    $color = 'value';
    $minorTicks->color($color);
    $yAxisItem->minorTicks($minorTicks);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $color = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->minorTicks(array('color' => $color));
    ?>

### minorUnit
The interval between minor divisions. It defaults to 1/5th of the yAxis.majorUnit.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `float`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->minorUnit(1);
    ?>

### name
The unique axis name. Used to associate a series with a y axis using the series.yAxis option.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value ``



### narrowRange
If set to true the chart will prevent the automatic axis range from snapping to 0.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `boolean`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->narrowRange(true);
    ?>

### notes

The y axis notes configuration.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemNotes|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemNotes](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemNotes)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $notes = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemNotes();
    $position = 'value';
    $notes->position($position);
    $yAxisItem->notes($notes);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $position = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->notes(array('position' => $position));
    ?>

### pane
The name of the pane that the axis should be rendered in.
The axis will be rendered in the first (default) pane if not set.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->pane('value');
    ?>

### addPlotBand

Adds one or more ChartYAxisItemPlotBand to the ChartYAxisItem.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value[, $value2, ...] `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemPlotBand|array`

#### Example - using \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemPlotBand

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $plotBand = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemPlotBand();
    $color = 'value';
    $plotBand->color($color);
    $yAxisItem->addPlotBand($plotBand);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $color = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->addPlotBand(array('color' => $color));
    ?>

#### Example - adding more than one ChartYAxisItemPlotBand

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $first  = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemPlotBand();
    $second = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemPlotBand();
    $yAxisItem->addPlotBand($first, $second);
    ?>

### reverse
If set to true the value axis direction will be reversed. By default values increase from left to right and from bottom to top.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `boolean`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->reverse(true);
    ?>

### title

The title configuration of the scatter chart y axis.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemTitle|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemTitle](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemTitle)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $title = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemTitle();
    $background = 'value';
    $title->background($background);
    $yAxisItem->title($title);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $background = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->title(array('background' => $background));
    ?>

### type
The axis type.The supported values are:

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->type('value');
    ?>

### visible
If set to true the chart will display the y axis. By default the y axis is visible.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `boolean`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->visible(true);
    ?>

Commit message:

Update chart axis php and java docs

api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItem.md, after:

---
title: ChartYAxisItem
slug: php-dataviz-ui-chartyaxisitem
tags: api, php
publish: true
---

# \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem

A PHP class representing the yAxisItem setting of ChartYAxis.


## Methods

### axisCrossingValue
Value at which the Y axis crosses this axis. (Only for object)Value indices at which the Y axes cross the value axis. (Only for array)Date at which the Y axis crosses this axis. (Only for date)

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `|date|array`



#### Example  - using 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->axisCrossingValue(new ());
    ?>

#### Example  - using date
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->axisCrossingValue(new date());
    ?>

#### Example  - using array
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->axisCrossingValue(new array());
    ?>

### background
The background color of the axis.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->background('value');
    ?>

### baseUnit
The base time interval for the axis labels. The default baseUnit is determined automatically from the value range. Available options:

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->baseUnit('value');
    ?>

### color
The color of the axis. Accepts a valid CSS color string, including hex and rgb.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->color('value');
    ?>

### crosshair

The crosshair configuration options.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemCrosshair|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemCrosshair](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemCrosshair)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $crosshair = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemCrosshair();
    $color = 'value';
    $crosshair->color($color);
    $yAxisItem->crosshair($crosshair);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $color = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->crosshair(array('color' => $color));
    ?>

### labels

The axis labels configuration.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemLabels|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemLabels](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemLabels)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $labels = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemLabels();
    $background = 'value';
    $labels->background($background);
    $yAxisItem->labels($labels);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $background = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->labels(array('background' => $background));
    ?>

### line

The configuration of the axis lines. Also affects the major and minor ticks, but not the grid lines.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemLine|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemLine](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemLine)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $line = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemLine();
    $color = 'value';
    $line->color($color);
    $yAxisItem->line($line);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $color = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->line(array('color' => $color));
    ?>

### majorGridLines

The configuration of the major grid lines. These are the lines that are an extension of the major ticks through the
body of the chart.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMajorGridLines|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMajorGridLines](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemMajorGridLines)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $majorGridLines = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMajorGridLines();
    $color = 'value';
    $majorGridLines->color($color);
    $yAxisItem->majorGridLines($majorGridLines);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $color = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->majorGridLines(array('color' => $color));
    ?>

### majorTicks

The configuration of the scatter chart y axis major ticks.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMajorTicks|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMajorTicks](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemMajorTicks)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $majorTicks = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMajorTicks();
    $color = 'value';
    $majorTicks->color($color);
    $yAxisItem->majorTicks($majorTicks);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $color = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->majorTicks(array('color' => $color));
    ?>

### majorUnit
The interval between major divisions.
If this is a date axis the value represents the number of xAxis.baseUnits between major divisions.
If the yAxis.type is set to "log", the majorUnit value will be used for the base of the logarithm.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `float`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->majorUnit(1);
    ?>

### max
The maximum value of the axis.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value ``



### min
The minimum value of the axis.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value ``



### minorGridLines

The configuration of the minor grid lines. These are the lines that are an extension of the minor ticks through the
body of the chart.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMinorGridLines|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMinorGridLines](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemMinorGridLines)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $minorGridLines = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMinorGridLines();
    $color = 'value';
    $minorGridLines->color($color);
    $yAxisItem->minorGridLines($minorGridLines);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $color = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->minorGridLines(array('color' => $color));
    ?>

### minorTicks

The configuration of the y axis minor ticks.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMinorTicks|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMinorTicks](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemMinorTicks)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $minorTicks = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemMinorTicks();
    $color = 'value';
    $minorTicks->color($color);
    $yAxisItem->minorTicks($minorTicks);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $color = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->minorTicks(array('color' => $color));
    ?>

### minorUnit
The interval between minor divisions. It defaults to 1/5th of the yAxis.majorUnit.
If the yAxis.type is set to "log", the minorUnit value represents the number of divisions between two major units and defaults to the major unit minus one.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `float`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->minorUnit(1);
    ?>

### name
The unique axis name. Used to associate a series with a y axis using the series.yAxis option.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value ``



### narrowRange
If set to true the chart will prevent the automatic axis range from snapping to 0.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `boolean`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->narrowRange(true);
    ?>

### notes

The y axis notes configuration.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemNotes|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemNotes](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemNotes)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $notes = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemNotes();
    $position = 'value';
    $notes->position($position);
    $yAxisItem->notes($notes);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $position = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->notes(array('position' => $position));
    ?>

### pane
The name of the pane that the axis should be rendered in.
The axis will be rendered in the first (default) pane if not set.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->pane('value');
    ?>

### addPlotBand

Adds one or more ChartYAxisItemPlotBand to the ChartYAxisItem.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value[, $value2, ...] `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemPlotBand|array`

#### Example - using \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemPlotBand

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $plotBand = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemPlotBand();
    $color = 'value';
    $plotBand->color($color);
    $yAxisItem->addPlotBand($plotBand);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $color = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->addPlotBand(array('color' => $color));
    ?>

#### Example - adding more than one ChartYAxisItemPlotBand

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $first  = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemPlotBand();
    $second = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemPlotBand();
    $yAxisItem->addPlotBand($first, $second);
    ?>

### reverse
If set to true the value axis direction will be reversed. By default values increase from left to right and from bottom to top.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `boolean`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->reverse(true);
    ?>

### title

The title configuration of the scatter chart y axis.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemTitle|array`


#### Example - using [\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemTitle](/kendo-ui/api/wrappers/php/Kendo/Dataviz/UI/ChartYAxisItemTitle)
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $title = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItemTitle();
    $background = 'value';
    $title->background($background);
    $yAxisItem->title($title);
    ?>

#### Example - using array

    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $background = 'value';
    $yAxisItem->title(array('background' => $background));
    ?>

### type
The axis type.The supported values are:

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `string`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->type('value');
    ?>

### visible
If set to true the chart will display the y axis. By default the y axis is visible.

#### Returns
`\Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem`

#### Parameters

##### $value `boolean`



#### Example 
    <?php
    $yAxisItem = new \Kendo\Dataviz\UI\ChartYAxisItem();
    $yAxisItem->visible(true);
    ?>
